solemn ceremony marks handover a solemn , historic ceremony has marked the resumption of the exercise of sovereignty over hong kong by the people 's republic of china .
his royal highness the prince of wales and the president of the people 's republic of china (prc) he mr jiang zemin both spoke at the ceremony , which straddled midnight of $date and $date . the ceremony was telecast live around the world .
the ceremony took place in the grand hall of the hong kong convention and exhibition centre (hkcec) extension and was attended by some $number guests , including foreign ministers and dignitaries from $number countries and international organisations , and $number of the world 's media .
principal representatives of both countries were seated on the central dais .
representing britain were hrh ; the rt hon tony blair , prime minister ; the rt hon robin cook , secretary of state for foreign and commonwealth affairs ; rt hon christopher patten , governor of hong kong ; and general sir charles guthrie , chief of defence staff .
seated in three rows behind the principal representatives were $number distinguished guests , including dignitaries from china and britain and the principal officials of the hong kong and hksar governments .
more than $number years of british administration over hong kong ended with the playing of the british national anthem and the lowering just before midnight yesterday ( monday ) of the hong kong and union flags .
this was followed at the stroke of midnight by the playing of the chinese national anthem and the raising of the chinese national flag and the flag of the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) within $number minute of the new day ( tuesday ) . guards of honour from china and britain $number from each country - as well as military bands from both countries took part in the ceremony , which started at $number pm and ended $number am .
three royal hong kong police officers lowered the british hong kong flag , while another three , also from the hong kong police , raised the sar flag .
following the ceremony , mr qian bid farewell to hrh and mr patten at the hkcec extension before the two left for the royal yacht britannia , for their departure from hong kong .
speech by president jiang zemin at handover ceremony following is the translation of the speech by he president jiang zemin of the people 's republic of china at the ceremony for the handover of hong kong held by the chinese and british governments on $date your royal highness prince charles , prime minister tony blair , distinguished guests , ladies and gentlemen , the national flag of the people 's republic of china and the regional flag of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china have now solemnly risen over this land .
at this moment , people of all countries in the world are casting their eyes on hong kong .
in accordance with the sino - british joint declaration on the question of hong kong , the two governments have held on schedule the handover ceremony to mark china 's resumption of the exercise of sovereignty over hong kong and the official establishment of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china .
this is both a festival for the chinese nation and a victory for the universal cause of peace and justice .
thus , $date will go down in the annals of history as a day that merits eternal memory .
the return of hong kong to the motherland after going through a century of vicissitudes indicates that from now on , the hong kong compatriots have become true masters of this chinese land and that hong kong has now entered a new era of development .
history will remember mr deng xiaoping for his creative concept of " one country , two systems " .
it is precisely along the course envisaged by this great concept that we have successfully resolved the hong kong question through diplomatic negotiations and finally achieved hong kong 's return to the motherland .
on this solemn occasion , i wish to express thanks to all the personages in both china and britain who have contributed to the settlement of the hong kong question and to all those in the world who have cared for and supported hong kong 's return to the motherland .
on this solemn occasion , i wish to extend my cordial greetings and best wishes to the $number or more hong kong compatriots who have now returned to the embrace of the motherland .
after the return of hong kong , the chinese government will unswervingly implement the basic policies of " one country , two systems " , " hong kong people administering hong kong " and " a high degree of autonomy " and keep the previous socio - economic system and way of life of hong kong unchanged and its laws basically unchanged .
after the return of hong kong , the central people 's government shall be responsible for the foreign affairs relating to hong kong and the defence of hong kong .
the hong kong special administrative region shall be vested , in accordance with the basic law , with executive power , legislative power and independent judicial power , including that of final adjudication .
the hong kong residents shall enjoy various rights and freedoms according to law .
the hong kong special administrative region shall gradually develop a democratic system that suits hong kong 's reality .
after the return , hong kong will retain its status of a free port , continue to function as an international financial , trade and shipping centre and maintain its economic and cultural ties with other countries , regions and relevant international organizations .
the legitimate economic interests of all countries and regions in hong kong will be protected by law .
i hope that all the countries and regions that have investment and trade interests here will continue to work for the prosperity and stability of hong kong .
hong kong compatriots have a glorious patriotic tradition .
hong kong 's prosperity today , in the final analysis , has been built by hong kong compatriots . it is also inseparable from the development and support of the mainland .
i am confident that with the strong backing of the entire chinese people , the government of the hong kong special administrative region and hong kong compatriots will be able to manage hong kong well , build it up and maintain its long - term prosperity and stability , thereby ensuring hong kong a splendid future .
thank you .
hksar established , officials sworn in a ceremony to establish the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) of the people 's republic of china was held early today ( tuesday ) at the hong kong convention and exhibition centre (hkcec) extension .
the ceremony included the swearing - in of the hksar 's $number chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , and of the principal government officials , members of the executive council , provisional legislative council and the judiciary .
the ceremony in hall $number of the extension was attended by some $number vips , dignitaries and guests , including $number foreign ministers and heads of international organisations .
china 's vice premier and foreign minister , mr qian qichen , who also served as chairman of the preparatory committee of the hksar , opened the ceremony $number am .
guests then rose for the national anthem .
after this , the president of the people 's republic of china (prc) , mr jiang zemin , announced the establishment of the hksar .
the premier of the state council of the prc , mr li peng , swore in mr tung , and then proceeded to swear in the hksar 's principal government officials .
mr tung then swore in members of the executive council , provisional legislative council and the judiciary .
mr li then delivered a short speech , followed by a speech from mr tung .
after the ceremony , provisional legislative council members proceeded to hall $number for $number , $number and $number readings of the reunification bill .
this bill gives legal effect to the $number bills passed by the provisional legislative council since it began sittings .
oaths for sar officials the oath of the chief executive i , tung chee hwa , swear that , in the office of chief executive of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , i will uphold the basic law of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , bear allegiance to the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china and serve the hong kong special administrative region conscientiously , dutifully , in full accordance with the law , honestly and with integrity , and be held accountable to the central people 's government of the people 's republic of china and the hong kong special administrative region .
the oath of principal officials i swear that , in the office of ................. of the government of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , i will uphold the basic law of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , bear allegiance to the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china and serve the hong kong special administrative region conscientiously , dutifully , in full accordance with the law , honestly and with integrity .
the executive council oath i swear that , being appointed to the executive council of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , i will uphold the basic law of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , bear allegiance to the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china and serve the hong kong special administrative region conscientiously , dutifully , in full accordance with the law , honestly and with integrity .
the provisional legislative council oath i swear that , being a member of the provisional legislative council of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , i will uphold the basic law of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , bear allegiance to the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china and serve the hong kong special administrative region conscientiously , dutifully , in full accordance with the law , honestly and with integrity .
the judicial oath i swear that , in the office of a judge of the judiciary of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , i will uphold the basic law of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , bear allegiance to the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , serve the hong kong special administrative region conscientiously , dutifully , in full accordance with the law , honestly and with integrity , safeguard the law and administer justice without fear or favour , self - interest or deceit .
speech by chinese premier at inauguration ceremony following is the translation of the speech by he premier li peng of the state council of the people 's republic of china at the ceremony for the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region and the inauguration of the $number government on $date : distinguished guests , ladies and gentlemen , on this momentous occasion , i would like to extend , on behalf of the central people 's government of the people 's republic of china , our warmest congratulations on the establishment of the government of the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) .
i wish to take this opportunity to express thanks to all the distinguished guests present at this ceremony .
my sincere thanks also go to members of the preparatory committee of hksar , members of the selection committee of $number government of hksar and all those who care for and support the return of hong kong .
as of today , the basic law of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china takes effect .
$number chief executive of hksar , principal officials of the government of hksar , members of the executive council , members of the provisional legislative council and judges of the court of final appeal and of the high court , you have now been sworn into office .
history has invested a very important responsibility on you .
i hope that you will , in the spirit of loving china and loving hong kong , implement the basic law in real earnest , scrupulously fulfill your duties and live up to the expectations of the people .
the central people 's government will give full support to the chief executive mr tung chee - hwa and to the work of the government of hksar .
i am convinced that , our hong kong compatriots , now back in the great family of motherland , will positively contribute to hong kong 's continued long - term prosperity and stability with their industry and wisdom .
the return of hong kong to the motherland and the establishment of the government of hksar mark the successful application of mr deng xiaoping 's great vision of " one country , two systems " in resolving the question of hong kong . it represents an immense success of the chinese people in their pursuit for complete national reunification . at the same time it is a major contribution to the cause of universal peace and progress .
hong kong has now entered a new historical era and its future will be even more splendid !
thank you all .
inaugural speech by hksar chief executive following is the translation of the inaugural speech by the honourable tung chee hwa , chief executive of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , on $date : president jiang , premier li , my fellow countrymen , and friends , this is a momentous and historic day : $date $number , nineteen $number .
after $number years of separation , hong kong and china are whole again .
we are here today to announce to the world , in our language , that hong kong has entered a new era .
indeed , over the past century and a half , many compatriots , driven by lofty ideals and steadfast conviction , have devoted themselves to the advancement of our people and safeguarding the territorial integrity of our nation .
their enormous sacrifice and tireless efforts have brought us to where we are today . never have we , as a nation , had such prosperity and potential to achieve greatness as we do today .
today , we , as a nation , are fortunate to be in a position which our predecessors could only dream about .
as a chinese living in hong kong , and on behalf of all the people of hong kong , i would like to express our profound respect and gratitude to all the men and women who have made such sacrifices and given us what would otherwise have been impossible to attain .
the resumption of sovereignty over hong kong under " one country , two systems " is an ingenious and novel concept .
the eyes of the world are on us , as hong kong accepts the great honour , and the challenge , of charting new waters which will make history .
i am confident that we will rise to the challenge and build a brighter and better future . our confidence is well founded .
our conviction is based on the intellect and vision of a great patriot and statesman ; on the solemn commitment of a great nation ; and on the wisdom , industry and versatility of the hong kong people , a legacy from our heritage and culture .
above all , we , as one nation and one people , will implement the " one country , two systems " concept ; it is entirely within our prerogative to make it work .
through a solemn act of law , the central people 's government has granted hong kong a high degree of autonomy , unparalleled anywhere in the world .
we value this empowerment , and we will exercise our powers prudently and responsibly .
with the respect and trust from the entire nation , we will be that much more equipped to sail forward with confidence and with conviction . we will play a part in facilitating the re - unification of the entire nation , and bringing a better life to all in the nation .
for $number time in history , we , the people of hong kong , will be master of our own destiny .
the special administrative region government is fully committed to preserving the hong kong way of life , maintaining hong kong 's free and open economic system , upholding the rule of law , and building a more democratic society .
as i stand here at this historic moment , a moment of great honour and pride , i am mindful of the enormous responsibilities which lie ahead .
throughout my life , i have experienced the joy and satisfaction of success and the pain and frustration of failure . i understand the hopes and aspirations of hong kong people . i am fully aware of the power in unity of purpose and direction .
i will resolutely uphold the principles of autonomy as set forth under the basic law . i will carry out my duties with honesty , sincerity and determination . i will lead the $number people of hong kong , along with our indomitable spirit , towards the future .
i firmly believe , as a special administrative region of china , the future of hong kong will be more glorious and more successful .
thank you .
$number guests join celebration ceremony more than $number vips and guests from all corners of the globe attended a ceremony today ( tuesday ) to celebrate the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china .
among the guests were chinese president jiang zemin , premier li peng and vice premier and foreign secretary qian qichen as well as foreign ministers and ministers from $number countries and secretary generals and senior representatives from $number international organisations .
mr jiang and the chief executive of the hong kong special administrative region mr tung chee hwa both spoke at the event , held in the magnificent new extension of the hong kong convention and exhibition centre .
before he spoke , mr tung made a special welcome to a front - row guest zhuo lin , the widow of the late patriarch deng xiaoping who masterminded the 'one country , two systems ' concept for the future of hong kong .
the ceremony also included the transfer of the land fund to the hong kong sar government , as well as a video presentation of reunification gifts to the people of hong kong by $number provinces , autonomous regions and municipalities in china .
later , renowned composer tan dun treated guests to a preview of his new " symphony $number ( heaven , earth , mankind ) " , which involved performances by world - class cellist yo yo ma , cantonese singing star jacky cheung , the asian youth orchestra , yip 's children 's choir and the imperial bells ensemble of china playing a set of magnificent , bronze chime bells .
this was followed by a hong kong medley , a musical celebration which involved a lucky ensemble of hong kong 's top eight singers and seven musicians on traditional instruments .
a highlight of this segment was a rendition of another new composition " homecoming " , which has been especially written to mark the handover .
the music for homecoming was written by composer dr victor goh , in conjunction with mrs betty tung , the chief executive 's wife , while the words were also written by mrs tung in collaboration with miss linda yung .
programme : arrival of officiating party national anthem speech by mr jiang zemin , president of the people 's republic of china speech by mr tung chee hwa , chief executive of the hong kong special administrative region transfer of the land fund to the hksar government announcement of gifts presented to the hong kong special administrative region from the central people 's government , $number provinces , autonomous regions and municipalities performances : symphony $number ( heaven , earth , mankind ) hong kong medley : a musical celebration end
speech by chinese president following is the translation of the speech by president of the people 's republic of china jiang zemin at the ceremony to celebrate the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china on $date : ladies and gentlemen , my fellow countrymen , today , the chinese and british governments have held the handover ceremony of hong kong , solemnly announcing the resumption by the chinese government of the exercise of sovereignty over hong kong .
now , the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china is formally established , which is an event of great importance and far - reaching influence for hong kong , for china and even for the whole world .
at this $date historical moment , on behalf of the central people 's government and the chinese people of all ethnic groups , i wish to extend our warm congratulations on hong kong 's return to the motherland and the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region , to extend our cordial greetings to the $number hong kong compatriots now back to the big family of the motherland , and to express our gratitude to the compatriots in hong kong , macao , taiwan and the overseas chinese who have contributed to hong kong 's return and all the patriotic personages supporting china 's reunification .
my thanks also go to all our foreign friends who have cared for an supported hong kong 's return to china .
i also wish to extend , on behalf of the chinese government , our welcome to the distinguished guests and friends who are present at this ceremony .
hong kong 's return to the motherland is a shining page in the annals of the chinese nation .
from now on , the hong kong compatriots will truly become masters here as a new leaf will be turned in the annals of hong kong .
since ancient times , our ancestors have lived and laboured on this land generation after generation .
from the qin dynasty to emperor daoguang 's reign of the qing dynasty , china exercised jurisdiction and sovereignty over hong kong .
in mid-19th century , after launching two opium wars , britain forced the corrupt and incompetent qing government to sign the treaty of nanking , $number and the convention of peking , $number . $date , britain again coerced the qing government into signing the convention of the extension of hong kong , thus occupying the entire hong kong region .
notwithstanding the prolonged separation , the flesh - and - blood bond between the people on mainland and hong kong compatriots had never been severed , nor had their shared sentiment for the well - being of the nation .
the chinese people have never recognised the unequal treaties imposed on them , never forgotten for a single day the humiliating state of hong kong under occupation and never stopped their indomitable struggle for state sovereignty and national emancipation .
with the passage of time , earthshaking changes have taken place .
the rise of $number five - star red flag at tiananmen square showed the world that china had achieved national independence and liberation and embarked on a road to socialism .
thanks to reform and opening - up , a rejuvenated chinese nation has taken on a completely new look , and its international stature has been greatly enhanced .
it is under these conditions and against this historical backdrop that hong kong has finally returned to the motherland .
in these days of national jubilation for hong kong 's return , we cherish dearly and with great admiration the memory of mr deng xiaoping , who passed away not long ago .
he initiated , with exceptional wisdom and great statesmanship , the creative vision of " one country , two systems " , charting the correct course for us to resolve the hong kong question through diplomatic negotiations and to maintain long - term prosperity and stability of hong kong .
after the chinese government resumes the exercise of sovereignty over it , hong kong will continue to practise the capitalist system , with its previous socio - economic system and way of life remaining unchanged and its laws basically unchanged while the main part of the nation persists in the socialist system .
as a special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , hong kong will enjoy a high degree of autonomy as provided for by the basic law , which includes the executive , legislative and independent judicial power , including that of final adjudication .
the central people 's government will administer foreign and defence affairs of the hong kong special administrative region in accordance with law .
we extend our sincere congratulations to mr. tung chee hwa , chief executive of the hong kong special administrative region , who has been sworn in today . we have full confidence in the hong kong special administrative region government under his leadership and will give it full support .
the basic law of the hong kong special administrative region shall be observed not only in hong kong , but also by all the departments of the central government as well as the provinces , autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the central government .
no central department or locality may or will be allowed to interfere in the affairs which , under the basic law , should be administered by the hong kong special administrative region on its own .
after hong kong returns to the motherland , the overwhelming majority of the laws previously in force will be maintained . hong kong residents will enjoy their rights and freedoms in accordance with law and will all be equal before the law .
the provisions of the international covenant on civil and political rights , the international covenant on economic , social and cultural rights , and international labour conventions as applied to hong kong will remain in force to be implemented through hong kong 's regional legislation .
a gradually improved democratic system suited to hong kong 's reality is an important guarantee for its social and political stability .
hong kong will , in accordance with the basic law , develop democracy gradually with the ultimate aim of electing the chief executive and the legislative council by universal suffrage .
after its return to the motherland , hong kong will retain the status of a free port and an international financial , trade and shipping centre while continuing to maintain and develop its economic and cultural relations with other countries , regions and relevant international organisations so that this international economic metropolis will forever be vigorous and dynamic .
the hong kong special administrative region protects the right to own private property in accordance with law and may , on its own , formulate its economic , trade , monetary , financial , educational , scientific and technological , cultural and sports policies in accordance with law . it will have independent finances , practise an independent taxation system and be a separate customs territory .
all the economic and trade activities and investment interests of other countries and regions in hong kong will be protected by law .
these policies and guidelines have been formulated by the central people 's government after careful consideration of the need to safeguard both the immediate interests of the hong kong compatriots and the fundamental interests of the chinese nation .
their adherence serves hong kong , serves the entire nation and serves the world as well . therefore , there is no reason whatsoever to change them .
here , i would like to reaffirm that " one country , two systems " , " hong kong people administering hong kong " and " a high degree of autonomy " will remain unchanged for $number years .
hong kong 's success today is , in the final analysis , the work of the hong kong compatriots .
their pioneering and enterprising spirit has filled people around the world with deep admiration .
our hong kong compatriots will certainly carry forward this valuable spirit and bring about a better future for hong kong .
as mr deng xiaoping rightly put it , " the chinese in hong kong have the ability to run the affairs of hong kong well and they should be confident of that . "
hong kong 's success today is inseparable from china 's development and the support by the people on the mainland .
after the founding of new china , the chinese government has all along given support for a socially stable and economically prosperous hong kong .
since the beginning of china 's reform and opening - up , that support has become even more powerful and effective .
hong kong , as an important bridge linking china with the rest of the world in economic , scientific , technological and cultural exchanges , has benefited from it immensely .
with the continuous advance of china 's modernisation drive , hong kong 's economic link with the mainland will become even closer and its role as a bridge will be increasingly enhanced .
hong kong 's success today is also attributable to a number of other factors .
its advantageous geographical location , its free port policy of complete openness , its well - developed legal system and highly efficient team of civil service , and its effective economic management and civic administration have all facilitated hong kong 's economic development .
these factors will continue to play a positive role after its return .
our hong kong compatriots are known for their glorious tradition of patriotism .
they have made important contributions in the struggle for national liberation and in the modernisation drive of the motherland .
hong kong compatriots will surely display greater love for the motherland and for hong kong , and take it as their utmost honour to maintain long - term prosperity and stability in hong kong and safeguard the fundamental interests of the country and the nation .
to many foreigners living here , hong kong has already become their home . it will remain their home in the future where they can live and work in peace and contentment .
in hong kong , everyone will have the chance to compete on an equal footing and everyone will be entitled to the rights and freedoms as protected by law , regardless of race and colour .
by achieving a negotiated settlement of the hong kong question , the chinese and british governments have provided the international community with an example of peaceful settlement of historical issues between states .
here , i wish to express my thanks to those british personages , both within and without the government , for their contributions to the smooth transition of hong kong .
we are confident that the successful solution to the hong kong question will help strengthen the friendship between the two peoples .
thanks to reform , opening - up and the modernisation drive , china has witnessed tremendous changes in its economic and social life .
we owe all our achievements most fundamentally to the road of building socialism with chinese characteristics which we have taken .
we will unswervingly take economic development as our central task , continue to deepen reform , open still wider to the outside world and push for overall social progress .
we will unswervingly promote peaceful reunification of the motherland in accordance with the principle of " one country , two systems " , ensuring a smooth return of macao and eventually resolving the taiwan question .
we will unswervingly pursue the independent foreign policy of peace , join the people of other countries in maintaining world peace and promoting common development , and contribute our share to the establishment of a fair and equitable new international order of peace and stability .
the advent of $date has entered a countdown stage .
our country is at an important historical juncture .
let the entire chinese people , our compatriots in hong kong , macao and taiwan and the overseas chinese included , get united , let all patriots who support china 's reunification and care for its development get united . let us all work hard with one mind , seize the day , seize the hour , keep abreast of the times and strive for the complete reunification of the motherland and the overall rejuvenation of the chinese nation .
thank you .
speech by the chief executive following is the translation of the speech by the honourable tung chee hwa at the ceremony to celebrate the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china on $date : president jiang distinguished state leaders honoured guests fellow hong kong citizens and friends , today is a momentous day for china .
it marks the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china . in the midnight hours behind us , china officially resumed sovereignty over hong kong ; the hong kong special administrative region was sworn in by the central people 's government .
in peace and solemnity , hong kong opens a new chapter in its history .
as hong kong proudly strides into the new era with a new identity , our thoughts and remembrance go , with great reverence , to the late mr deng xiao ping .
despite rapid economic growth , the mood in hong kong remained apprehensive due to the lack of a clear direction on the future .
mr deng stepped forward decisively and created a blueprint for hong kong $date , under the imaginative concept of " one country , two systems " and taking into account the fundamental interests of china and the chinese people as a whole .
the concept , widely accepted by all parties concerned , resolved the uncertainties over hong kong 's future .
we express our respect and warm welcome to madam zhuo lin .
we should express our gratitude to president jiang zemin and the entire leadership in china .
during the sometimes turbulent transitional period , they have worked tirelessly to smoothen the path leading up to the handover , lay the ground for a better hong kong , and ensure a smooth and successful transition . this is a remarkable achievement .
we can now move forward , on the basis of the solid foundation of past successes and under the guidance of the basic law , to lead hong kong to a new height .
the basic law provides the constitutional framework for the hong kong special administrative region . it has documented and institutionalised the " high degree of autonomy " conferred upon us .
it clearly prescribes the social , economic and political systems in hong kong which are different from those in the mainland . it reaffirms the implementation of a different system within one country . it protects the rights and lifestyle of hong kong people and delineates our obligations .
hong kong is at present the freest and the most vibrant economy in the world . free enterprise and free trade ; prudent financial management and low taxation ; the rule of law , an executive - led government and an efficient civil service have been a part of our tradition .
all these factors which underlie our success have been guaranteed in the basic law .
leaders in china have said time and again that the prosperity and stability of hong kong will contribute to the modernisation of our country . furthermore , the successful implementation of " one country , two systems " , " a high degree of autonomy " and " hong kong people administering hong kong " is $number step towards the ultimate re - unification of china .
citizens of hong kong , this is our mission .
our country has given us a high degree of autonomy , and her full support .
now is the time for us to apply our intelligence and work arduously for a better future .
like most people in hong kong , i am not a passer - by .
our home , our career , and our hope are here in hong kong .
we have deep feelings for hong kong and a sense of mission to build a better hong kong .
today , i wish to share with you my thoughts on the future development of the economy , education , housing and care for the elderly , issues which are of great concern to the people .
hong kong can be proud of its achievement over the past $number years . there is no question about this .
nevertheless , we have to be alert to the challenges which lie ahead .
we face keen competition in trade and services , and our competitiveness is threatened by persistently high inflation . we have to resolve a series of social problems arising from a growing and ageing population , meet the pressing demand for more and better housing , and deal with employment dislocation due to re - structuring of the economy . all these require urgent attention and careful handling .
beneath the surface of prosperity , there are insidious threats which are taxing our courage and determination .
our foremost task is to enhance hong kong 's economic vitality and sustain economic growth .
only through the creation of wealth can we improve the living of the people of hong kong , and continue to contribute to our country .
it is the responsibility of the special administrative region government to create a good business environment , plan for and train the necessary manpower , and uphold the principles of free trade , fair competition and non - interference in the market .
we will strive to enhance hong kong 's position as an international financial centre and a cosmopolitan city . we will promote the services sector and facilitate the development of value - added and high technology industries .
the world is entering an information era . we must adopt positive measures to encourage investment in the information industry and infrastructure , and nurture expertise in this area .
only then can hong kong remain at the forefront of the new age with vigour and vibrancy .
education is the key to the future of hong kong . it provides a level playing field for all , and the human resources required for further economic development .
our education system must cater for hong kong 's needs , contribute to the country , and adopt an international outlook .
we shall draw up a comprehensive plan to improve the quality of education , and inject sufficient resources to achieve this goal .
the thrust of our policy will be to improve primary and secondary education . to start with , we must have quality teachers and principals with a strong sense of mission . we have to raise the professional qualification of teachers .
in the foreseeable future , new teachers for primary and secondary schools should all have a university degree and teacher 's training . we will extend full - day schooling to all primary schools and abolish floating classes in secondary schools as soon as possible . we will raise the standard of language training ; formulate a comprehensive policy on the application of information technology in education ; improve the system of examinations and school management ; promote diversification in the school system .
we will encourage tertiary institutions to develop areas of excellence . we will further review the academic system in terms of the length of and the interface between the various stages of education , so as to ensure that our education system meets the long - term interests of hong kong .
we have to foster among our youngsters a sense of responsibility towards the family , the community , the country and the world ; and to develop in them the strength of character , the spirit of enterprise , and the versatility to cope with vagaries in life .
to achieve this goal , the school , the family and the community must work together and share the responsibility . owning one 's home is an aspiration shared by the people of hong kong .
it is crucial for nurturing a sense of belonging and maintaining social stability . housing cost also has a strong bearing on the economic vitality of hong kong .
the crux of the housing problem is inadequate supply , causing prices to soar and creating opportunities for speculators .
the fact of the matter is : hong kong has enough land to meet our housing needs .
with unfaltering determination , it should be possible to resolve the housing problem .
we will draw up a ten - year housing plan : to speed up reclamation and land formation ; extend the mass transit system and infrastructure development ; and increase the efficiency of housing production through a comprehensive review of the existing organisation and working procedures .
we will substantially increase the production of home ownership flats , actively implement the sale of public rental flats to sitting tenants , and address the needs of the " sandwich class " . we will increase overall housing supply at a target of not less than $number flats a year . the aim is to achieve a home ownership rate of $number in ten years .
we will also speed up urban redevelopment , clear all temporary housing areas and cottage areas , rehouse the dwellers of bedspace apartments ; and reduce the average waiting time for public rental housing to three years .
rampant speculation in the property market in recent months has seriously affected our competitiveness and people 's livelihood .
we will devise a range of anti - speculation measures and monitor the market closely . we will take resolute action when it becomes necessary to do so .
our senior citizens have contributed to hong kong 's success .
they deserve respect and care from the community .
the special administrative region government will develop a comprehensive policy to take care of the various needs of our senior citizens and provide them with a sense of security , a sense of belonging and a sense of worthiness .
we will set up a " commission for the elderly " with wide community representation to formulate policies and co - ordinate the delivery of services .
we will set up the mandatory provident fund scheme as soon as possible . we will also carry out an in - depth review of the comprehensive social security assistance scheme which aims to assist the needy among our senior citizens and improve their living .
we will encourage families to live with their elderly members through adjustment to the public housing allocation policies ; provide supporting services to carers of the elderly ; and increase the supply of housing and residential services for senior citizens .
we will also improve primary health care and strengthen services for the chronically ill .
furthermore , we will promote the physical and mental well - being of senior citizens and encourage them to do voluntary work , so that they can continue to contribute to the community .
reunification with china opens up new opportunities for hong kong .
successful implementation of " one country , two systems " requires us to develop a better understanding of our country , cultivate a congenial relationship with the mainland , embrace a distinctive set of values ; safeguard the rule of law ; protect our freedoms ; promote democracy ; and establish a common long - term purpose .
the interests of hong kong and the motherland are intricately linked and intertwined .
due to our long separation , there is a general lack of understanding about china among the people of hong kong .
the reunification has created a new environment and better conditions for us to understand our country and our people , and to love our country and our people .
only then can we firmly establish our roots and make " one country , two systems " a success .
we must strengthen the understanding and relationship between hong kong and the mainland , through mutual trust , mutual economic benefits , cultural interaction , and mutual respect for each other 's way of life .
we know hong kong and the mainland will move forward together , hand in hand . every society has to have its own values to provide a common purpose and a sense of unity .
most of the people of hong kong are chinese , some are not .
for a long time , hong kong has embraced the eastern and western cultures .
we will continue to encourage diversity in our society , but we must also reaffirm and respect the fine traditional chinese values , including filial piety , love for the family , modesty and integrity , and the desire for continuous improvement .
we value plurality , but discourage open confrontation ; we strive for liberty but not at the expense of the rule of law ; we respect minority views but also shoulder collective responsibilities .
i hope these values will provide the foundation for unity in our society .
maintaining and developing the legal system and the rule of law in hong kong is immensely important . we will continue to ensure that the executive , legislative and judicial branches of the government will operate independently .
we will keep up our efforts against corruption and maintain a clean society . we will ensure equality before the law and provide an attractive environment for investors and the people of hong kong .
we will preserve the existing freedoms and lifestyle , and ensure that the people of hong kong will continue to enjoy the freedoms of speech , assembly , association , the press and other freedoms guaranteed by the international covenant on civil and political rights .
democracy is the hallmark of a new era for hong kong .
the special administrative region government will resolutely move forward to a more democratic form of government in accordance with the provisions in the basic law . we will provide opportunities for every stratum of the society and legitimate political organisations , and people with different shades of opinion , to participate in the political process .
the special administrative region government will adopt an open attitude and be accountable to the public .
hong kong has an outstanding and honest civil service . they will have a crucial role to play under " one country , two systems " .
together , we will serve the community and work for a better hong kong .
for $number time in the history of hong kong , we now have the opportunity to chart our own destiny .
under " one country , two systems " , we will move forward with conviction , prudence and determination .
we will work together for a better future . our vision of hong kong is - - - a society proud of its national identity and cultural heritage ; - a stable , equitable , free , democratic , compassionate society with a clear sense of direction ; - an affluent society with improved quality of life for all ; - a decent society with a level playing field and fair competition under the rule of law ; - a window for exchanges between china and the rest of the world ; - a renowned international financial , trading , transportation and communication centre ; - a world class cultural , education and scientific research centre .
distinguished guests , my fellow citizens of hong kong : in two years , the people 's republic of china will be celebrating its $number birthday .
in two years , the world will be greeting the beginning of a new millennium . and i know , in two years , hong kong will achieve greater successes and a better life for all , as we move into the next century .
i invite you to join me in wishing china thriving prosperity ; i invite you to join me in wishing hong kong continuous success .
land fund boosts sar fiscal reserves the transfer today ( tuesday ) of the land fund assets totalling some hk $ $number to the hong kong special administrative region government (hksarg) has boosted fiscal reserves to around hk $ $number .
taking this into account , the combined assets of the exchange fund and the land fund will amount to about hk $ $number , of which more than us $ $number ( hk $ $number ) are held in foreign currency assets . these foreign currency assets are among the world 's largest such holdings .
the handing over of the land fund assets by the central people 's government was formally acknowledged during a ceremony this morning at the hong kong convention and exhibition centre extension to celebrate the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) .
the land fund will now be managed solely by the sar government and will form part of the sar 's fiscal reserves .
the hksar chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , appointed the financial secretary , mr donald tsang yam - kuen , as the public officer to receive the fund .
the land fund portfolio will be managed by the hong kong monetary authority , under the direction of the financial secretary , as a separate portfolio from the exchange fund .
the financial secretary will establish an advisory committee to advise him on the management and investment strategy of the land fund .
the land fund was established $date as a stipulation of the sino - british joint declaration , which states that from the time the declaration came into effect on $date and up to $date , premium income received by the hong kong government from land transactions shall , after deduction of the average cost of land production , be shared equally with the future hksarg .
on $date , the ' hksar government land fund trust ' ( land fund ) was formally established in hong kong as a trust by the office of the chinese representatives to the sino - british land commission with the agreement of the british side of the commission .
the ' hksar government land fund trust statement ' ( trust statement ) was announced at the same time . these formed the legal basis for the operation and transfer of the land fund .
the trust statement provides for the three chinese representatives of the sino - british land commission to be authorised by the government of the people 's republic of china to manage , as trustees , the fund and maintain its value on behalf of the hksar government .
since it was established $number years ago , and despite market fluctuations , the land fund trustees not only ensured the safety and normal operation of various investments but also achieved remarkable returns .
when the central people 's government handed the fund to the sar government this morning its assets exceeded hk $ $number , including accumulated interest of hk $ $number . * since $date , the hong kong dollar has been linked to the us dollar at the rate of hk $ $number to us $ $number .
fs announced composition of land fund advisory committee the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , today ( tyesday ) announced the full composition of the land fund advisory committee .
the financial secretary will chair the committee , with mr joseph yam , chief executive of the hong kong monetary authority , and mr chung shui - ming , former chief executive of the land fund as the two deputy chairmen .
other members of the committee include mr david li kwok - po , mr alexander au siu - kee , mr vincent cheng hoi - chuen , mr antony leung kam - chung , mr ian wilson and mr yang zilin .
" i am pleased that these distinguished members of hong kong 's financial community have agreed to accept the appointment to serve on the land fund advisory committee , " said mr tsang .
the advisory committee will advise the financial secretary on the investment strategy and management of the land fund .
' golden ' bauhinia , gifts presented to hksar a glistening , gold - plated sculpture entitled the " forever blooming bauhinia " has been presented as a gift to the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) from the central people 's government .
other gifts including sculptures , tapestries , carvings , embroidery , porcelain and lacquer ware have also been presented to the hksar by $number provinces , autonomous regions and municipalities in the mainland of china .
the " forever blooming bauhinia " was presented to hksar chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , and china 's vice premier and foreign minister qian qichen after a ceremony at the hong kong convention and exhibition centre (hkcec) extension this ( tuesday ) morning to celebrate the establishment of the hksar .
due to the large number and size of the gifts , some of which weigh between $number and $number kilogrammes , individual presentations were not possible during the celebration ceremony .
while most guests were admiring the gifts , mr tung and $number vvips were at the hkcec extension foyer , where mr qian made a symbolic presentation of the " forever blooming bauhinia " .
the sculpture itself was at the extension waterfront but bad weather prevented a scheduled unveiling of the six - metre high bronze sculpture which is coated with gold and plated with gold foil .
the sculpture sits on a polished red sichuan granite base . the bauhinia is an integral part of an orb which sits on a cylindrical stem . this represents the concept of " one country , two systems " .
the stem is in turn surrounded by a rendering of the great wall , which symbolises the protection of the motherland .
the theme of the " forever blooming bauhinia " augurs a prosperous and thriving future for hong kong .
other gifts presented to the hksar reflect special features or identifying characteristics of the provinces , autonomous regions or municipalities from where they came .
for example the gift from the inner mongolia autonomous region , where horsemanship skills are highly regarded , features a galloping steed , while the island province of hainan has presented a shell carving .
the public will be able to view the $number gifts , which will eventually be housed in a museum , on $date from $number am to $number pm at the level $number exhibition hall at the hkcec .
symphony and song celebration for hksar a symphony featuring ancient chinese chime bells and a song of celebration have been especially written to mark the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) .
" symphony $number ( heaven , earth , mankind ) " and a song entitled " homecoming " received their debut at the celebration ceremony at the hong kong convention and exhibition centre extension today ( tuesday ) .
" symphony $number " was composed and conducted by renowned musician tan dun , a hunan native , who was commissioned to write the symphony by the association for celebration of reunification of hong kong with china .
the large - scale orchestral and choral work combines ancient chinese chime - bells , a symphony orchestra , a cello solo and the sweet sounds of singing in a dramatic and sweeping presentation .
the symphony is divided into three movements : heaven explores the traditional past of chinese people ; earth explores the equilibrium between nature and the elements ; mankind commemorates those who fought and suffered in wars .
the $number - minute work was condensed into $time for today 's concert .
the full work , recorded in the mainland of china , hong kong and the us , will be released as a cd recording on $date .
the idea to compose " homecoming " , a special song of celebration , grew out of a chance encounter between composer dr victor goh and mrs betty tung , the wife of hksar chief executive , mr tung chee hwa .
in the course of their chat they agreed it would be very meaningful to create something musical to mark the handover .
dr goh immediately worked on conceiving a melody and developed it with mrs tung .
she then put her head together with miss linda yung to write the lyrics .
as the project developed , it took on a special significance for the authors , who had a unique opportunity to display their deep feelings on such a momentous occasion .
background information on celebration ceremony performances : the bianzhong - chime bells : these magnificent $number - year - old - bells were discovered in a tomb in hubei province $date .
the $number bronze bells , arranged in three rows on an elaborate l - shaped frame , were decorated with a gold inlay and depicted dragons , beasts and flowers .
it is believed it took six people using wooden mallets to make the bells sing .
the bells used for today 's performance are replicas of those unearthed in hubei .
tan dun ( composer , conductor ) : born $date in hunan province , tan dun is hailed internationally as one of the world 's most creative , experimental and expressive composers and conductors .
yo yo ma ( cello ) : yo yo ma began his cello studies with his father . his $number public performance was $date at the age of five and he has been acclaimed as one of the world 's greatest performers .
the $number - time grammy award winner has earned an international reputation as an ambassador for classical music and is a highly sought - after talent with a wide ranging repertoire .
music and song : pop singer jacky cheung , the asian youth orchestra , yip 's children 's choir and imperial bells ensemble of china added their own special talents to this performance .
their participation in the " symphony $number ( heaven , earth , mankind ) " performance provides an excellent opportunity to showcase some of the marvellous achievements of hong kong 's home - grown musical and vocal talent .
hong kong medley - a musical celebration : a lucky ensemble of hong kong 's top eight singers presents a musical celebration to mark the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region .
the singers are household names in hong kong and in overseas chinese communities around the globe . together with seven musicians on traditional instruments , they perform a new composition " homecoming " , specially written for the handover as well as a medley of chinese folk songs .
" homecoming " : composed by dr victor goh and mrs betty tung .
lyrics by miss linda yung and mrs betty tung .
" homecoming " lyrics : let the sun shine everywhere , countless people united in one , hand - in - hand , for hong kong , unity is the direction .
the beautiful sun of $date shines forth on hong kong , the pride of homecoming will forever be carved in my heart .
wisdom of the motherland , hong kong people 's perseverance , together we realise " one country , two systems " .
performers : the singers performing at today 's ceremony were sally yeh , faye wong , jacky cheung , aaron kwok , leon lai , george lam , andy lau and alan tam . the musicians performing were chris babida , chang yin , chu siu - wai , ng hiu - hung , siu pak - yung , sylvia tang and wong sun - tat .
the hong kong medley included an international children 's parade , a children 's choir , gymnastics and dance display , a photo essay on hong kong 's achievements and a stunning laser and pyrotechnics show .
masters of ceremony : miss lisa wang and mr william lee .
thousands pray for buddha 's blessing the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , today ( tuesday ) joined $number people in the largest buddhist ceremony ever held in hong kong . on $number day of the establishment of the special administrative region , buddhists gathered at the hong kong government stadium to pray for the blessings of the buddha , for stability , prosperity and for world peace .
the three - hour ceremony opened with music from a brass band of $number performers from several schools .
another $number students entered the arena carrying flags of the people 's republic of china , the sar flag and the buddhist banner .
the chief executive delivered a pre - recorded message to the assembled worshippers and was presented with a ruyl , a jade carving said to bring good fortune , health and happiness .
as the crowd chanted prayers , some $number people used placards to form a picture of a gathering of buddhas and bodhisattvas ( buddhist saints ) . mr tung officiated at the opening of a huge lotus bloom containing the image of the buddha . a flock of doves , symbolising peace , was also released .
more than $number kindergarten pupils performed dances to celebrate hong kong 's reunion with the motherland and $number actors and actresses performed a song and dance drama of " the story of the buddha sakyamuni " .
as the crowd joined in choral singing the performers lit candles among the crowd and the flame was passed from person to person to symbolise the light of the buddha bringing everyone good fortune and happiness .
harbour spectacular ushers in hong kong 's new era an explosion of light and sound ushered in hong kong 's new era as victoria harbour became the stage for the biggest show hong kong has ever seen .
the hk $ $number spectacular , featuring lasers , lights , fireworks , water fountains , music , an illuminated flotilla and the world 's largest karaoke performance was staged this ( tuesday ) evening to celebrate hong kong 's new status as a special administrative region of china .
the focus of the spectacular was " the pearl of the orient " - a huge , illuminated white globe as tall as the hong kong convention and exhibition centre extension .
filled with lasers and other high - tech illumination , the pearl , " exploded " with light in the middle of the harbour , bringing the show to life .
the " explosion " cued in the next item - the " sea of life " - which featured $number giant lanterns , each carried on its own barge .
all the items in the show , produced by the better hong kong foundation and the association for celebration of reunification with china , had a chinese theme .
they included pandas , chinese lucky coins , an ox , a dragon and a phoenix .
each was sponsored by one of $number different companies since the $ $number show was funded entirely by commercial organisations .
although chinese themes predominated and the show was funded by local companies , it was , in keeping with hong kong 's cosmopolitan nature , a truly international event .
the chairman of the better hong kong foundation , mr henry cheng said : " it successfully fused the best of hong kong , chinese and overseas talent , reflecting the true face of hong kong as an international and cosmopolitan city . "
victoria harbour has often been lit up with gigantic fireworks displays , but this spectacular truly lived up to its name .
not only fireworks but the world 's biggest laser show and $number searchlights , cut through the black velvet fabric of the night sky in a dazzling display .
music was an important and integral part of the show , some of it composed specially for the occasion .
the score included traditional chinese songs , tunes from films with a chinese theme , excerpts from tan dun 's " symphony $number ( heaven , earth , mankind ) " and new music by rene dupree .
a featured performer was internationally renowned cellist , yo yo ma .
there was also a performance on the bianzhong , a set of $number - year - old bronze chinese bells , believed to be the world 's oldest musical instrument .
as the lanterns and floats sailed across the harbour , up to $number spectators , listening in on portable radios , sang along in the world 's biggest mass karaoke session .
as the karaoke songs died away , neon lights and celebratory handover illuminations on buildings along the hong kong and tsim sha tsui shores were turned off .
this was the cue for the " city of light " spectacular in which the huge pearl came alive again in the giant laser and searchlight display .
the climax of the show was a blaze of light across the skyline as neon lights , in time to the music , formed a rippling wave along the hong kong shore from north point to the macau ferry terminal . mr cheng said the show had made a bold statement to the world about confidence in hong kong 's future as a special administrative region of china .
the show was produced by don mischer productions which arranged the opening and closing ceremonies for the $number olympic games in atlanta .
the barges used in the show were built in shipyards in china .
mr cheng said that the team of world - class professionals who worked on the show had " shown great sensitivity and respect for chinese traditional cultural values and had consulted widely with experts in china and hong kong " .
tomorrow ( $date ) the flotilla used in the spectacular will be on display to the public at various locations throughout hong kong .
programme : pearl of the orient : a celebration of hong kong 's glamorous international reputation ; a musical tribute performed in music , water and light .
sea of life : an elegant illuminated flotilla transporting the audience into the world of chinese tradition and culture .
$number custom - built floats represented symbols of happiness , good fortune and peace .
the longest and grandest segment of the spectacular , lasting $time .
city of light : the modern hong kong , city of bustling energy , digital dynamic and fibre optic miracles . a bold statement for a bold city in lasers , searchlights and city lights .
unity : from east to west ; old to new ; china to hong kong ; the city joined together in celebration .
accompanied by tan dun 's beautiful " song of peace , " a symbolic bridge of unity formed between hong kong and kowloon .
this led directly into : celebration : the harbour erupted in hong kong 's biggest fireworks display .
music and light merged in a final spectacular tribute to the people and wonders of hong kong and the world ; and image of unity and joy .
transport arrangements for tai po float parade on $date the transport department today ( tuesday ) announces that special traffic and transport arrangements will be implemented on $date to facilitate the holding of float parade in tai po .
a number of roads in tai po will be closed temporarily . motorists are advised to use tolo highway , ting kok road and nam wan road and to avoid calling at tai po district .
(a) bus and green minibus (gmb) services - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - kmb route no . 6 4 k , $number , 7 1 k , $number , 7 2 a , 7 2 x , $number , 7 3 a , 7 3 x , 7 4 a , 7 4 k , 7 4 x , 7 5 k , 7 5 x and $number will be diverted from $number am to about noon .
gmb routes no . 2 0 a , 2 0 k , 2 1 k , 2 3 k , 2 5 k will be diverted . residential routes no . 5 1 r and 5 0 2 r will also be diverted .
during the float parade , red minibuses will be permitted to operate via tai po tai wo road , ting kok road , nam wan road and tai po road . in addition , red minibus service between sheung shui / yuen long and tai po will be permitted to operate via tai po tai wo road , ting kok road , tai wo estate road l6 and tai po road - tai wo .
ce makes declaration of interests to cj the hksar chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , has on $date made a declaration of interests to the chief justice of the court of final appeal , mr andrew li , who has put it on record .
this declaration is to comply with requirements under article $number of the basic law , which stipulates that the chief executive , on assuming office , shall declare his assets to the chief justice of the court of final appeal .
mr tung declared and made public his interests together with members of the hksar executive council in $date this year .
ce presents medals of honour the hksar chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , today ( wednesday ) presented the grand bauhinia medals in the hong kong special administrative region government 's honours system to $number recipients at government house .
the grand bauhinia medal (gbm) is the highest award in the honours system .
the recipients must be hong kong permanent residents who have displayed distinguishing merits over a considerable period .
those so honoured have , for a long time : * fostered among hong kong people a love for the motherland ; * showed concern about and support for , and also identified with , china 's accomplishments ; and * made an outstanding contribution to the hong kong community .
the honours list will be announced annually on $date .
the $number recipients honoured today with the gbm are : mr wong ker lee , mr ann tse kai , mr cha chi ming , dr chung sze yuen , mr simon li fook sean , mr tsang hin chi , mr chuang shih ping , mrs elsie tu , mr xu simin , mr lee quo wei , mr fok ying tung , and mr lo tak shing .
the hksar chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , presided over the ceremony which china 's vice - premier and foreign minister , mr qian qichen , also attended .
visa agreement with thailand mr tung chee hwa , chief executive of the hong kong special administrative region , and his excellency mr prachuab chaiyasan , foreign minister of thailand , signed an agreement today ( wednesday ) on mutual exemption of visa requirements for holders of hong kong special administrative region passport to visit thailand and thai passport holders to visit hong kong for $number days .
" the signing of the agreement reflects the thai government 's confidence in the ' one country , two systems ' concept and hong kong 's continued stability and prosperity , " mr tung said .
he added that he had no doubt that other countries would follow suit in joining the increasing list of countries or territories granting the hksar passport visa - free treatment .
the visa - exemption agreement between thailand and hong kong will no doubt promote the further development of trade , business and tourism links between hong kong and thailand .
television news is not correct a tv news programme reported today ( wednesday ) that the water supplies department had opened the crest gate of shing mun reservoir to discharge the water because of heavy rains . " the information of the news was not correct , " a spokesman for the department said .
" all impounding reservoirs in hong kong have spillways to let the extra water flow away naturally when the reservoir is full .
government 's position on immigration claims in response to press enquiries on what arrangements will be made for a group of children approaching the immigration department to claim right of abode (roa) under basic law $number ( $number ) ( $number ) , a government spokesman said today ( thursday ) that the immigration department will process claims regarding immigration status , including eligibility to roa , in the usual manner .
" as it will take some time to verify the claims , we will let the claimants go home on recognisance , " the spokesman said .
the spokesman stressed that there are no special arrangements or amnesty for illegal immigrants .
" all those who cannot establish their legal rights to stay in hong kong will be repatriated , " he said .
informal liaison with taiwan in response to press enquiries , a spokesman for the chief executive 's office said today ( thursday ) that mr paul yip has been liaising informally for the past few weeks with mr cheng an kuo , of the chung hwa travel service , on matters relating to hong kong and taiwan .
fs 's vision of hong kong 's economic future the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , today ( thursday ) described his vision of hong kong 's economic future as " asia 's manhattan " .
" a hong kong that focuses on the highest part of the value chain , thereby allowing us to operate on a high but sustainable cost base ; a hong kong which excels in processing information and adding value through it on the strengths of one of the best telecommunications infrastructures one can find in the world .
" a hong kong that is superbly effective in integrating and organising buying , selling and production activities spanning vast geographical territories ; and a hong kong that is strikingly externally oriented , always on the lookout for business opportunities no matter where they are and ready to learn from economies near and far . "
elaborating on hong kong 's service economy , mr tsang said underlying it was also the success story of how hong kong had outgrown the confines of its physical boundary and developed into a hub that supported , serviced and controlled a huge range of business activities in asia and beyond .
he quoted some key figures as an illustration of the extent of hong kong 's service orientation .
" the service sector accounts for $number percent of gross domestic product and $number percent of our employment depends on services , " mr tsang said .
" hong kong is the $number largest exporter of services in the world , with its service exports growing at an average annual rate of $number percent in value terms .
" hong kong is the world 's busiest container port ; the world 's $number largest centre in external banking transactions and foreign exchange transactions ; the world 's $number in terms of facsimile lines per $number business lines ; and the most popular tourist and visitor destination as well as $number most popular convention venue in asia . "
on the question whether the government has a role to play in this vision , mr tsang said the answer was " yes and no " .
" yes because the public sector can support and facilitate business in areas that individual entrepreneurs and firms find difficult to contribute to if left alone . these include infrastructure , education and manpower development , fighting corruption , cutting red tape , safeguarding the free flow of information , and upholding the rule of law , " he said .
" no because in the final analysis business decisions are for businesses to make .
they , not the government , stand to profit or perish by those decisions , with the market as the final judge .
the further the government stays away from these areas , the better it will be for hong kong 's economy . "
the financial secretary said hong kong 's recent economic development was a classic example of this " minimum intervention , maximum support " approach adopted by the government .
" our increasingly heavy emphasis on higher value - added economic activities , many of which fall within the statistical classification of services , has been purely market - led .
what the government has done has been simply to follow the market and provide the support that the market demands , " he said .
speech by the financial secretary following is the speech by the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , at a panel briefing at hong kong convention and exhibition centre this afternoon ( thursday ) : introduction - - - - - - - - - - - - ladies and gentlemen , may i $number , on behalf of the organisers and the other panellists , welcome you to this briefing .
i hope you have enjoyed the last few days , when we saw the birth of the hong kong sar .
today hong kong is back to business as usual .
everywhere you go , be it banks , restaurants , photo - processing shops or wherever , you will receive the same , $number class service you and the rest of the world have come to expect in this dynamic city .
i think this shows how sophisticated our society has become . it shows how effectively and professionally the people of hong kong have prepared themselves for the transition .
and above all it shows the determination of the people in both the hong kong sar and the mainland to make the concept of " one country , two systems " work .
nothing can be more convincing on this point than the plain fact that it is business as usual everywhere you look .
hong kong 's service economy - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - the briefing today focuses on hong kong 's service economy .
it signifies the fact that the hong kong sar earns its money by the much more elusive commodity called knowledge , rather than just sweat and labour though of course those two elements are still present .
underlying our service economy is also the success story of how hong kong has outgrown the confines of its physical boundary and developed into a hub that supports , services and controls a huge range of business activities in asia and beyond .
a look at some key figures reveals the extent of hong kong 's service orientation .
the service sector now accounts for $number of gross domestic product and $number of our employment depends on service .
hong kong is the $number largest exporter of services in the world , with its service exports growing at an average annual rate of $number in value terms .
hong kong is the world 's busiest container port ; the world 's $number largest centre in external banking transactions and foreign exchange transactions ; the world 's $number in terms of facsimile lines per $number business lines ; and the most popular tourist and visitor destination as well as $number most popular convention venue in asia .
the facts are clear . hong kong has a powerful and prosperous service economy .
many of its service industries are internationally competitive .
hong kong is remarkably successful in servicing china , asia and beyond in many business hub functions such as headquarters , banking and finance , transportation , and telecommunications .
past or present glory does not imply future success .
we know our job is to build on the successes of the past to ensure an even better economic future for the hong kong sar .
at the risk of over - simplification , i think that no two words can better describe it than - " asia 's manhattan " .
here i am not just talking about a hong kong full of glass - panelled skyscrapers , banks and multi - nationals .
of course we already have many of these and will continue to do so .
but we are also talking about other important things .
this is the hong kong envision .
the public sector 's role - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - does the government have a role to play in this vision ?
yes and no .
yes because the public sector can support and facilitate business in areas that individual entrepreneurs and firms find difficult to contribute to if left alone .
these include infrastructure , education and manpower development , fighting corruption , cutting red tape , safeguarding the free flow of information , and upholding the rule of law .
no because in the final analysis business decisions are for businesses to make .
they , not the government , stand to profit or perish by those decisions , with the market as the final judge .
the further the government stays away from these areas , the better it will be for hong kong 's economy .
hong kong 's recent economic development is a classic example of this " minimum intervention , maximum support " approach adopted by the government .
our increasingly heavy emphasis on higher value - added economic activities , many of which fall within the statistical classification of services , has been purely market - led .
what the government has done has been simply to follow the market and provide the support that the market demands .
the detailed story of what we have done in the past few years in support of our service sector , much of which was kick - started by a government task force which i chaired , is in the task force 's final report available at the reception counter .
some key issues - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - i think i have talked enough about generalities and it is time to invite our guest panellists to speak more specifically on a few key issues .
i hope they will give you some idea of how hong kong is tackling the challenges posed by a high value - added economy at various levels .
a key concern overseas , and to some extent in hong kong , is the relationship between services on the one hand and manufacturing on the other and whether an economy is sustainable without a substantial manufacturing sector .
the argument often used is that a bank does not provide as many jobs as an assembly line .
so getting more banks does not mean an economy can afford to lose its assembly lines .
well , there are not so many assembly lines in hong kong these days but unemployment stays low .
dr victor fung , chairman of our trade development council , will share with you his views about the close and often inseparable relationship between hong kong 's manufacturing and service sectors and how , instead of one weakening the other , both have become much stronger together .
another important area is service productivity .
simply put , this measures how effectively our service industries turn input into output .
hong kong shares the common concern of many developed economies that service productivity usually grows more slowly than manufacturing productivity .
mr kenneth fang , chairman of our productivity council , will share with us the council 's experience in raising service productivity for hong kong .
finally , after talking so much on issues affecting the entire spectrum of our service industries , we believe it would be useful to share with you our experience in relation to a particular service industry .
we have chosen tourism in this case and mr y s lo , chairman of our tourist association , will speak on that .
we also have mr brian stevenson , chairman of the hong kong coalition of service industries , to share his thought with us .
may i now invite dr victor fung to speak .
china gifts to hksar go on show the $number gifts to the hong kong special administrative region from the china 's central people 's government , provinces , autonomous regions and municipalities went on show at the hong kong convention and exhibition centre today ( thursday ) .
the exhibition , in hall $number of the hkcec phase i , is open to the public from $number am to $number pm today and tomorrow .
admission to the exhibition is by tickets which are available free of charge at the main entrance to the hkcec phase i , which is off harbour road .
govt welcomes announcement on sar passport : mauritius in response to the mauritian government 's press statement today ( thursday ) , a hong kong government spokesman welcomes the mauritian government 's announcement that hksar passport holders will be given visa - free access to visit mauritius .
" this treatment reflects a vote of confidence in the sar passport . " it signifies the strong and welcome commitment of the mauritian government to hong kong 's continued success , " he said .
the spokesman added that mauritian nationals are welcome to continue to visit hong kong .
provisional district board chairmen elected the tuen mun , sha tin , islands , tai po , wan chai and southern provisional district boards have each elected a chairman at their respective meetings today ( thursday ) .
they are mr lau wong - fat of the tuen mun provisional district board , mr choy kan - pui of the sha tin provisional district board , mr lam wai - keung of the islands provisional district board , mr cheung hok - ming of the tai po provisional district board , mrs peggy lam of the wan chai provisional district board and ms mar yuet - har of the southern provisional district board .
construction output for $number quarter of $number the gross value of construction work , in nominal terms , performed by main contractors amounted to $ $number in $number quarter of $number , according to the preliminary results of the quarterly survey of construction output released today ( thursday ) by the census and statistics department . this represented an increase of $number over the same quarter last year .
based on the provisional estimate , the gross value of construction work , measured at constant ( $number ) market prices , performed in $number quarter of $number increased by $number over the same quarter last year .
the gross value of construction work , in nominal terms , performed at public sector sites amounted to $ $number , representing an increase of $number over the same quarter last year .
when measured at constant ( $number ) market prices , the increase was $number .
the gross value of construction work , in nominal terms , performed at private sector sites totalled $ $number , representing an increase of $number over the same quarter last year .
when measured at constant ( $number ) market prices , it was up by $number .
the gross value of construction work , in nominal terms , performed by contractors at locations other than construction sites amounted to $ $number , $number higher than in $number quarter of $number .
when measured at constant ( $number ) market prices , it decreased slightly by $number .
work in this category included minor new construction activities and renovation work at erected buildings and structures ; and electrical and mechanical fitting work .
analysed by end - use , residential building projects ( including commercial and residential composite buildings ) accounted for the greatest portion of the gross value of construction work performed at construction sites . the gross value of construction work performed for these projects was $ $number , representing an increase of $number over $number quarter of $number .
transport projects , which covered airport construction projects , represented $number largest category of construction site work . the gross value of construction work performed for these projects was $ $number , $number higher than in $number quarter of $number .
the gross value of construction work performed for these projects totalled $ $number , representing a remarkable increase of $number over $number quarter of $number .
compared with $number quarter of $number , the gross value of construction work , in nominal terms , performed by main contractors in $number quarter of $number decreased by $number .
the gross values of construction work at constant ( $number ) market prices are derived by deflating the nominal values with appropriate price indices to the price level of $number .
owing to the widespread sub - contracting practices in the construction industry , a construction establishment can be a main contractor for one contract and a sub - contractor for another contract at the same time .
the gross value of construction work performed by main contractors covers only those projects in which the construction establishment takes the role of a main contractor , but not projects in which it takes only the role of a sub - contractor .
however , sub - contractors ' contribution to projects should have been included in the gross value of construction work performed by main contractors for whom they worked . more detailed statistics on construction output are given in the " report on the quarterly survey of construction output , $number quarter $number " . the report is now on sale at $ $number per copy at the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , or at the census and statistics department publications unit , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries about the survey may be directed to the building , construction and real estate statistics section of the census and statistics department on $number $number .
the commemorative stamp folder contains a rmb $ $number stamp sheetlet with gold foil issued on $date to commemorate hong kong 's return to china . the selling price of the folder is $ $number each .
a sales restriction of five folders per customer queuing will be imposed on sunday . any unsold stock will continue to be sold at the $number philatelic offices on subsequent days until stock lasts .
emergency relief by swd the social welfare department has provided relief articles and hot meals to $number people who were affected by the rainstorm or mudslip throughout the territory .
the people , comprising adults and children , come from $number families .
some of them are taking temporary shelter at lung hang estate community centre in sha tin , and shek lei estate community centre and princess alexandra community centre in tsuen wan .
the regional social welfare officer ( new territories east ) , mrs lily wong , visited victims at lung hang estate community centre this ( thursday ) afternoon to offer any necessary assistance .
six victims have so far requested for comprehensive social security allowance and their applications are being processed .
social workers also escorted an $number - year - old man who was feeling unwell to the prince of wales hospital for medical checkup .
work arrangements during rainstorms urged the labour department today ( thursday ) reminded employers and employees to reach an agreement on work arrangements during inclement weather without delay .
" employers are strongly advised to adopt a flexible approach in drawing up work arrangements during inclement weather . due consideration should be given to employees ' safety in workplace as well as their journey to and from work , " a spokesman for the department said .
an agreement on work arrangements should normally cover rules regarding report of duty , release from work , resumption of work and wages calculation .
" the agreement should state clearly the colour code of rainstorm under employees are not required to work and the time of issue of such signals when they are not required to report for duty , " the spokesman said .
" it should also include instructions regarding the release of employees when the red or black rainstorm warning is in force during working hours .
" employers and employees should also make prior arrangements on conditions under which employees should return to work when rainstorm warnings are lowered during working hours . "
however , employers are urged to adopt a flexible approach towards resumption of duty as some employees may have difficulties in returning to work .
" as rainstorms are natural calamities , due consideration should also be given to employees who are absent from or late for work so that their earnings , including attendance bonus , are not adversely affected , " the spokesman added .
employers or employees who require assistance are welcome to approach the nearest labour relations service branch office .
exhibition on job matching services members of the public are welcomed to visit a two - day exhibition on the job matching services offered by the labour department starting from tomorrow ( friday ) .
the exhibition is aimed at promoting the free job matching services of the department to both employers and job - seekers . it will be opened daily from $number am to $number pm at level $number , crystal atrium , metroplaza , kwai chung .
it will include display panels introducing the job matching services of the job matching programme (jmp) and the job matching centre .
leaflets on these services will be distributed to visitors .
on - the - spot registration service will be provided to employers who wish to make use of the free recruitment service offered by the jmp or job seekers wishing to join the jmp .
vacancies registered under the supplementary labour scheme will also be available . job - seekers who wish to apply for these vacancies can register on the spot .
provisional db organises building management course members of owners ' corporations in sham shui po district and other interested people are invited to participate in a private building management certificate course to be held between $date .
the course is organised by the sham shui po provisional district board 's working group on private building problems with the assistance of the sham shui po building management co - ordination committee and sponsorship from sham shui po provisional district board . it covers topics on the building management ordinance , fire prevention , selection of property management company , lift maintenance and illegal structures .
application forms are now available at the sham shui po district office at $number floor , west coast international building , $number un chau street . deadline for applications is $date .
for enquiries , please call $number $number ext $number .
exhibition of primary school pupils ' creative work an exhibition of primary school pupils ' creative work , organised by the cultural crafts section ( art and craft ) of the education department 's advisory inspectorate , is being held at the cultural crafts education resources centre , from today ( thursday ) until $date .
about $number pieces of artwork from some $number primary schools are displayed .
the artwork , consist of paintings , drawings , prints , designs , sculptures and crafts , are the learning outcome of art and craft in hong kong primary schools .
members of the public are welcome to the exhibition staged at the cultural crafts education resources centre , $number and $number floors , $number pak fuk road , north point , from $number am to $number pm on weekdays and from $number am to noon on saturdays .
sir edward youde memorial fellowships and scholarships the sir edward youde memorial fund council announced today ( thursday ) that its fellowships and scholarships for overseas studies ( including the award for disabled students ) for the academic year $number will be open for application from tomorrow ( friday ) .
the fellowships and scholarships are aimed at encouraging the best students to pursue further education in reputable institutions overseas .
successful candidates for the awards are expected to have a strong sense of commitment to hong kong and be ready to contribute significantly to the community upon return from their overseas studies .
they will be required to work in hong kong for at least three years upon graduation .
the fellowships are for studies leading to postgraduate degrees either by research or by coursework ; the scholarships are for undergraduate studies leading to $number degrees .
the applicants will be responsible for fulfilling all application procedures and admission requirements of the academic institutions of their choice .
the value of fellowship is about $ $number per year for up to three years for doctoral degree or two years for master degree ; the value of scholarship is about $ $number per year for up to three years .
application forms and information notes are available at the following addresses : (a) student financial assistance agency $number floor , national mutual centre $number gloucester road wan chai hong kong (b) education department careers and guidance services section room $number , mong kok government offices $number luen wan street mong kok kowloon for enquiries , please call $number $number or $number $number .
the closing date for all applications is $date .
short - listed applicants will be required to attend the initial interview in hong kong to be conducted in $date .
suitable applicants will be requested to attend the final interview in hong kong in $date / $date .
mail services to sierra leone suspended the postmaster general , mr robert footman , announced today ( thursday ) that because of the present political situation in sierra leone , all air and surface mail services to the country , including letters and parcels , are suspended with immediate effect .
a further announcement will be made as and when services can be resumed .
water storage figure storage in hong kong 's reservoirs at $number am today ( thursday ) stood at $number per cent of capacity or $number cubic metres .
this time last year the reservoirs contained $number cubic metres of water , representing $number per cent of capacity .
pla head calls on ce the commander of the people 's liberation army hong kong garrison , major - general liu zhenwu , and his senior officers paid a courtesy call on the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , at government house today ( friday ) .
major - general liu briefed mr tung on various aspects of the garrison in hong kong , and had a long and cordial discussion .
the pla garrison is based in hong kong as a symbol of sovereignty and mr tung said hong kong was very fortunate to have a group of such fine and highly disciplined military personnel stationed here .
he said that major - general liu repeated the pla 's pledge to carry out its defence duties to the utmost of its abilities and to abide strictly by hong kong law and the garrison law .
report on prh figure incorrect in response to press enquiries , the secretary for housing , mr dominic s w wong , today ( friday ) said , " in the past five years , the number of public rental housing flats constructed by the housing authority ( $number ) still exceeded the number of public rental flats demolished ( $number ) , despite the heavy demolition programme during this period to replace old flats with only basic facilities by modern quality flats .
the figures reported in one newspaper today are inaccurate . "
" these public rental figures alone do not present the full picture of our public housing programme , " mr wong added .
" in the past five years , the housing authority also constructed a large number of subsidised home ownership flats ( $number ) , many of which have been purchased by tenants of the demolished flats .
in addition , rental flats vacated by other public housing tenants purchasing their own flats , either in the public or private sectors , have been reallocated to applicants on the public housing waiting list .
on average , some $number families on the waiting list have been allocated rental flats each year .
" as a result of various measures , the average waiting time for public rental housing has been reduced progressively from nine years to six - and - a - half years today .
we are committed to reducing it further in the years ahead . "
the housing branch ( now retitled housing bureau ) was established in $date , and is responsible , among other things , for public housing policies .
the housing authority is directly responsible for public housing construction and demolition .
" the criticisms levelled at the housing branch / bureau are misdirected , " mr wong said .
hk 's fiscal reserves forecast to reach hk $ $number by $date with the transfer of the land fund to the special administrative region (sar) government on $date and taking into account the budgeted surplus for the current financial year , the sar government 's fiscal reserves should stand at hk $ $number ( us $ $number ) by $date , the secretary for the treasury , mr k c kwong , said today ( friday ) .
with reserves of that size , he said , hong kong had a government with no debt ; accumulated fiscal reserves around us $ $number ; a simple tax system and corporate and personal taxes at a level amongst the lowest in the world .
speaking at a press briefing on the management of public finances , mr kwong said : " insofar as the role of the government is concerned , we are great believers in adage that 'small is beautiful ' .
" a corollary of our 'small government ' philosophy is that we 'live within our means ' .
mr kwong outlined the way that the government put these philosophies into practice .
" on expenditure , we keep strict control over government spending .
we do not allow it to grow , over time , faster than the trend growth rate of the economy .
it is worth emphasising that we are focusing not on expenditure growth in one year , but in a number of years over time , " he said .
" on revenue , we maintain a low , simple and predictable taxation system .
" the success of this two - pronged approach is evidenced by the fact that we have not only raised sufficient revenue to meet our spending needs but we have also built up a very healthy level of fiscal reserves .
" applying these principles has generated the resources for a modern infrastructure , for better homes , for better health care , for better schools and social welfare . "
mr kwong went on to say that these principles would continue to apply in the future as hong kong 's fiscal policies were enshrined in the mini - constitution of the hong kong special administrative region - the basic law .
" there can be no ifs and buts about our future policies on the management of our finances .
the proven policies which have worked so well in the past are now enshrined in the basic law , " he said .
" we will continue to keep firm control of government spending . we will continue to live within our means , and we will maintain our low , simple and predictable taxation system .
keeping us on course for continued economic growth . " and with the wealth which that growth generates , we will be able to further improve our public services and to invest in our infrastructure . "
ten provisional district board chairmen elected ten more provisional district boards have each elected a chairman at their respective meetings today ( friday ) .
they are : mr ng sze - fuk , chairman of sai kung provisional district board ; mr chan lau - fong , chairman of tsuen wan provisional district board ; mr tai kuen , chairman of yuen long provisional district board ; mr tang kwok - yung , chairman of north provisional district board ; mr chan bing - woon , chairman of eastern provisional district board ; mr chan chit - kwai , chairman of central and western provisional district board ; mr tam kwok - kiu , chairman of sham shui po provisional district board ; mr hau shui - pui , chairman of kwun tong provisional district board ; mr chan kam - man , chairman of wong tai sin provisional district board ; mr chow chun - fai , chairman of yau tsim mong provisional district board .
update on landslip incidents the geotechnical engineering office 's (geo) emergency control centre of the civil engineering department has received $number reports of landslip since the landslip warning was issued at $number am on $date .
of these , $number occurred alongside roads , $number involved squatter huts , $number were adjacent to buildings and two affected the kowloon canton railway (kcr) track .
most landslips occurred in sha tin and tsuen wan where intense rainfall had been concentrated .
about $number millimetres of rainfall were recorded in the chinese university , sha tin within $time .
the head of geo , dr andrew malone , said the office was carrying out detailed investigations into six serious landslip incidents .
" they include the landslip incidents at castle peak road near lido beach , tuen mun highway westbound near ting kau bridge , the $number buddha monastery in sha tin and the kcr track near the chinese university and fo tan , " dr malone said .
" geo has deployed $number staff to respond to the reported incidents . the geotechnical engineering staff give on the spot advice and guidance to the emergency team , regardless of the ownership of the collapsed slopes , " dr malone said .
" geotechnical advice on necessary emergency action and repair works to be taken is given to remove the immediate danger posed to the public . the slope owners , private or government departments , are responsible for carrying out these works .
" technical standards on such repair works are contained in the geoguide $number which has been widely circulated .
owners are advised to comply with the standards given in the layman 's guide to slope maintenance to ensure the safety of their slopes , " he noted .
" assistance had been sought from the lands department to identify the responsibility for the slopes which collapsed adjacent to the kcr track near the chinese university and fo tan .
detailed studies on these two cases are undertaken by this office , " dr malone added .
scolar receives encouraging responses to the language fund in response to the standing committee on language education and research (scolar) 's $number call for applications , $number applications to the language fund were received by $date .
speaking after a scolar meeting today ( friday ) , the scolar chairman , dr daniel c w tse said : " the encouraging response to our call for applications underlines the importance the community attaches to raising hong kong people 's language proficiency .
we shall process the applications in accordance with scolar 's established policy and make an announcement on successful applications as soon as possible . "
under scolar 's pro - active approach , around $number applications were submitted by experts in language education to conduct research projects under the $number research titles identified by scolar .
" scolar will examine each one of these research proposals closely to ensure that they satisfy our research specifications and vetting criteria , before making recommendations on the award of grants to the trustee of the language fund " , dr tse said .
" guided by our focused approach , we are confident that language teaching at the basic level will be able to benefit from the many innovative and effective programmes or teaching materials developed under the fund " , dr tse added .
at the meeting , members also discussed possible ways to evaluate completed language fund projects and to widely disseminate the findings and results of the projects .
provisional district board chairmen elected the kwai tsing and kowloon city provisional district boards have each elected a chairman at their respective meetings today ( saturday ) .
they are mr sin chung - kai of the kwai tsing provisional district board and mr tang po - hong of the kowloon city provisional district board .
applications for new green minibus routes close on monday applications for tendering the operation of $number new green minibus (gmb) routes throughout the territory will close at noon on monday ( $date ) .
a spokesman for transport department today ( saturday ) reminds interested applicants that they should submit their applications before deadline .
" late submission will not be entertained . "
applications must be made on the appropriate application forms entitled " application for passenger service licence in respect of the packages of public light bus ( scheduled ) routes gazetted $date " .
completed forms must be sealed in a plain white envelope marked " application for passenger service licence in respect of the packages of public light bus ( scheduled ) routes gazetted $date " .
they must be placed in the transport department tender box on the $number / f , immigration tower , $number gloucester road , wan chai , hong kong by monday noon .
land registry statistics released the land registry (lr) today ( sunday ) released land registration statistics for $number six months of $number .
a total of $number sale and purchase agreements of building units , which include both residential and non - residential properties , were received for registration by the lr during the period . the figure represented an increase of $number per cent and $number per cent compared with $number half of $number and $number half of $number respectively .
the total amount of the considerations involved in these agreements was $ $number , which was up by $number per cent and $number per cent compared with the two preceding half - yearly periods .
during $number six months of $number , $number assignments of building units were lodged for registration , compared with $number and $number respectively recorded during $number half of $number and $number half of $number , showing an increase of $number per cent and $number per cent respectively .
the total amount of the considerations involved , amounting to $ $number , indicated increases of $number per cent and $number per cent respectively when compared with the two preceding half - yearly periods .
the total amount secured under mortgages ( other than building mortgages ) was $ $number , showing an increase of $number per cent and $number compared with $number half of $number and $number half of $number respectively .
a table summarising the above figures and other related statistics for $number half of $number , together with the corresponding statistics recorded in $number half of $number and $number half of $number , was provided for comparison .
searches of land records by members of the public during $number half of $number totalled $number , up by $number per cent and $number per cent compared with $number half of $number and $number half of $number respectively .
meanwhile , land registration statistics for the month of $date were also released .
in $date , the registry received $number sale and purchase agreements for building units , which include both residential and non - residential properties . the figure represented a decrease of $number per cent from $date but an increase of $number per cent when compared with $date .
the total considerations of these agreements in $date was $ $number , up $number per cent and $number per cent when compared with the amounts for $date and $date respectively .
relevant statistics for $date and $date were provided for comparison . figures on sale and purchase agreements received for the past $number months and the year - on - year rate of change were also released .
these statistics generally relate to land transactions executed up to four weeks prior to their submission for registration , as there is usually a time lag between the execution of deeds and their lodgement for registration .
prisoners won awards in playscript contest seven prisoners from the shek pik prison , a maximum security prison on lantau , had won awards in a playscript contest .
the radio playscript contest is jointly organised by the education department and two media organisations . its theme is " respect our teachers and love our students " .
the piece of entry by the prisoners not only won the award as an outstanding play in the group for participants from form $number but also as the overall best playscript .
" it featured a form $number student on $number day of enrolment in a new school and his enlightenment arising from encounter with the principal and teachers there , " said a senior master at shek pik prison , who had given them encouragement and supervision in the contest .
he added the prisoners acted as students , teachers , the principal and parents in the radio play featuring a $number - year - old student who had been a drop - out from other schools .
the contest based on the portrayed theme helps participants arouse their interest of study and creativeness as well as promote respect and develop understanding towards their teachers and the society .
department of justice 's response to media enquiries in response to media enquiries on a case before deputy judge lugar - mawson this ( monday ) morning on the legality of laws passed by the provisional legislature , a spokesman for the department of justice noted that the arguments will be put to the court of appeal at the end of this month .
the secretary for justice has accepted the recommendation of the director of public prosecutions that all applications for adjournment pending the outcome of the appeal be opposed by the prosecution .
the department of justice is concerned that judicial proceedings should continue without delay while the issue is being resolved , the spokesman said .
csd 's response to press enquiries in response to press enquiries on the number of complaint cases received by the ombudsman today ( monday ) on the correctional services department (csd) and about the amendments to the prison rules under the prisons ordinance ( cap.234 ) , seeking to relax restrictions on prisoners ' incoming and outgoing correspondence , a spokesman for the csd gave the following response : against the record of $number cases published by the ombudsman in connection with complaint against correctional services department between $date , only $number cases have been referred to csd for enquires .
among these cases , apart from $number which are pending conclusion from the ombudsman , only one complaint was substantiated whereas another two cases were partially substantiated .
on the issue of the prison ( amendment ) rules $number which came into effect on $date , that any letter to a prisoner from , or from a prisoner to , a " specified person " , the list of such " specified person " , apart from the ombudsman include executive councillors , legislative councillors , visiting justices of the peace , and the commissioner of the independent commission against corruption .
prisoners are allowed to communicate in writing with any person , and the number of letters they write and send will not be limited . prison staff will only read prisoners ' letters if they have reasons to believe that the contents threaten the security , good order and discipline in the prison , unless the prison is a maximum security prison .
the csd has prior to the commencement of the amendments specified that such a letter should : * not be opened or searched except in the presence of the prisoner or unless the prisoner indicates that he does not wish to be present and , * not be read .
such an amendment has been made in line with the bill of rights ordinance .
$date will be statutory holiday the national day on $date will be an additional statutory holiday this year .
under the employment ordinance , an employer must grant a holiday to an employee on statutory holidays .
the additional statutory holiday on $date , was published in the government gazette on $date .
" under the ordinance , all employees , irrespective of their wage levels , are entitled to statutory holidays , " a spokesman for the labour department said today ( monday ) .
" an employee employed under a continuous contract is entitled to statutory holiday pay if he has worked continuously for his employer for three months or longer immediately before the statutory holiday , " the spokesman added .
holiday pay should be equivalent to an employee 's earnings on a full working day and should include basic wages as well as allowances that can be expressed in money terms such as cost of living , meal , travelling and attendance allowances , attendance bonus , commission and overtime pay .
any employer who fails to comply with the provisions of statutory holidays is liable to a maximum fine of $ $number .
press and broadcast centre closes on wednesday the press and broadcast centre (pbc) established by the hong kong government to facilitate the world 's media in reporting on the handover and related activities will close at $number am on wednesday ( $date ) .
since it opened on $date , the pbc has been home to $number representatives of the print and broadcast media from nearly $number countries or territories .
most of the $number media personnel who picked up their accreditation badges to cover the handover activities used the facilities provided at the pbc .
at the height of its operation , between $number and $number information officers and $number executive officers and representatives of other grades provided support services to operate the various facilities at the pbc .
in all , some $number media and general enquiries were handled by the information desk .
$number media briefings were organised in the pbc 's press conference room and $number visits to a range of destinations were arranged for both local and overseas journalists .
$number media organisations ( $number tv and radio and $number print media ) booked a total of $number exclusive working booths in the pbc . these covered an area of $number square metres .
announcing the closing date today , a government spokesman said the press and broadcast centre had run remarkably smoothly since it had opened three weeks ago .
" in general , the comments we have received from users of the centre have been most favourable . "
the spokesman pointed out that the pbc was closing slightly ahead of the scheduled date of $date as all organisations that had taken exclusive work space had now checked out or would have completed their shipping arrangements by early $date .
re - opening of the cotton tree drive marriage registry " the cotton tree drive marriage registry will be re - opened for service on wednesday ( $date ) , " an immigration department spokesperson announced today ( monday ) .
this marriage registry will provide marriage ceremony services , accept applications for search of marriage records and issue certified true copies of marriage records and certificates of absence of marriage records , the spokesperson said .
marrying parties who wish to have their marriage ceremonies at the cotton tree drive marriage registry should file notices of marriage at the marriage registration and records office in queensway , he added .
for enquiries , members of the public may telephone $number $number .
tender for the $number issue of $number - year exchange fund notes the hong kong monetary authority announces that the tender for $number issue of $number - year exchange fund notes will be held on monday , $date for settlement on tuesday , $date .
similar to the previous issue , an amount of hk $ $number $number - year notes will be on offer .
in addition to that , another hk $ $number will be held as reserve by the hong kong monetary authority for supply to market makers in the secondary market .
the notes will mature on $date and will carry interest at the rate of $number per annum payable semi - annually in arrears .
members of the public who wish to tender for the notes may do so through any of the market makers or recognized dealers on the published list which can be obtained from the hong kong monetary authority at $number / f , $number garden road , hong kong ( or telephone $number $number ) .
each tender must be for an amount of hk $ $number or integral multiples thereof .
hong kong monetary authority exchange fund note programme tender information ________________________________________________________ tender information for $number issue of $number - year exchange fund notes : issue number : $number tender date and time : monday $date , $number am to $number am issue and settlement date : tuesday $date amount on offer : hk $ $number plus an additional hk $ $number as reserve stock for the monetary authority maturity : three years maturity date : $date interest rate : $number per annum payable semi - annually in arrears interest payment dates : $date , $date , $date , $date , $date , $date tender amount : each tender must be for an amount of hk $ $number or integral multiples thereof .
members of the public who wish to tender for the notes may approach market makers or recognized dealers on the published list other details : please see information memorandum published or approach market makers or recognized dealers end
bill provides for certificate of entitlement scheme the executive council has endorsed the introduction of the immigration ( amendment ) ( no.5 ) bill $number to the provisional legislative council , an sar government spokesman said today ( tuesday ) .
the bill provides that those children who claim the right of abode (roa) in the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) under article $number ( $number ) ( $number ) of the basic law must produce proof of their right by way of a certificate of entitlement affixed to their travel documents or other acceptable proof of identity .
" the director of immigration will be empowered to refuse the entry of those children who are unable to produce such proof , " the spokesman said . the scheme seeks to provide an effective channel for the orderly arrival of children claiming the roa under article $number ( $number ) ( $number ) of the basic law .
under the scheme , the eligible children will not be allowed to enter hong kong unless eligibility for roa has been properly verified .
in the case of children residing in china , this means they have to produce proof of their roa by way of a certificate of entitlement issued by the director of immigration and affixed to their one - way permits .
the spokesman said that the director of immigration had held discussions with the mainland authorities and had secured their agreement to co - operate in the operation of the certificate of entitlement scheme .
" the public security bureau (psb) has agreed to accept application for certificate of entitlements from children residing in the mainland and continue to refer applications to the hksar immigration department after having confirmed the child 's identity , his relationship with his parents and claim to chinese nationality .
" the hksar immigration department will communicate the verification results together with the prepared certificate of entitlements back to the respective psbs on a regular basis .
" the director of immigration will authorise the psbs to keep custody and affix the certificate of entitlements onto the owps when the latter are ready for issue according to their turn , " the spokesman said .
immigration officers will conduct assessment on whether a person has a claim to roa under bl $number ( $number ) ( $number ) based on information supplied by psbs and by conducting record checks on the resident parents ' claim to the right of abode in hong kong at the time of the person 's birth .
" where there are doubts or discrepancies , mainland authorities will be requested to send copies of the supporting documents , and they will be consulted on its authenticity , " the spokesman said .
the scheme is a product of the deliberation by the task force on immigration matters chaired by the chief secretary for administration since early $date
" it is clearly irresponsible not to take effective measures to discourage the smuggling into hong kong of children claiming roa under bl $number ( $number ) ( $number ) by snakeheads who have no regard for their safety , " the spokesman said .
he added that it was important that the necessary legislative amendments should be enacted as soon as possible .
" the director of immigration needs to have the legal authority to remove persons whose eligibility to the roa has not been verified before they came to hong kong .
delays will be exploited by snakeheads to spread rumours of amnesty resulting in an influx of minors from the mainland .
" it is also necessary to make the amendments to have retrospective effect in order to ensure that those who entered illegally , clandestinely or who remained in hong kong illegally before the enactment of the bill may be removed in the same way as new arrivals , " the spokesman said .
the bill will be introduced into the provisional legislative council tomorrow ( wednesday ) . because of the importance and urgency of the matter , it is the administration 's intention to have the bill go through all three readings in one sitting .
measures to meet education needs of eligible children to be admitted under the certificate of entitlement scheme following the government 's announcement on the certificate of entitlement scheme for eligible children , the secretary for education and manpower , mr joseph w p wong , said that in view of a larger inflow of eligible children , the government will put in place measures to meet their education needs , while maintaining the overall quality of education .
if a total of $number eligible children are to arrive hong kong within a reasonably short period , the local education system will have to cater for many more eligible children than originally envisaged .
" we have made preparations to introduce a package of measures to cope with the situation .
" we will absorb as many of the eligible children in existing vacancies as possible , and will operate additional classes , employ additional teachers , operate additional induction / english programmes and short - term preparatory courses .
" in addition , the education department will set up a central co - ordinating unit to oversee the provision of support services and will strengthen its placement service .
it will also extend its teacher recruitment information service .
" the government will liaise with teacher education institutions with a view to providing more in - service teacher training places for untrained teachers .
" the arrival of eligible children will entail a permanent increase in school places and the school building programme will be expanded accordingly , " mr wong said .
mr wong pointed out that he would seek an additional recurrent expenditure of about $ $number in a full year and capital expenditure of about $ $number over five years to provide school places , support services and financial assistance for the $number eligible children .
" the larger inflow will inevitably have a temporary impact on the education system . but we are confident that with the additional measures , the overall quality of education will not be compromised .
" more specifically , improvement initiatives such as the reduction of class size and elimination of floating classes in secondary schools , will proceed as planned .
we will continue to explore ways to accelerate the implementation of whole - day primary schooling , " mr wong added .
hksar passports bill gazetted the hksar passports bill is gazetted today ( tuesday ) , an sar government spokesman said .
the spokesman explained that local legislation is needed to provide for practical matters relating to the issue of hksar passports , although the authority to issue hksar passports has already been given by the central people 's government .
" in the joint liaison group agreed minute on the preparation and issue of the hksar passport , it was stated that the hksar immigration department would be the sole issuing authority of the hksar passport .
" the bill provides for detailed matters such as the validity of hksar passports , cancellation of hksar passports under certain circumstances and prescribes the fees to be charged , " the spokesman added .
the fees prescribed in the bill have been announced by the immigration department about a month ago , when the immigration department began distributing application forms .
the government proposes the bill to take retrospective effect from $date if enacted .
" the authority for the immigration department to issue hksar passports takes effect from $date , and the immigration department has been issuing hksar passports to those who are in urgent need of a travel document since $date .
" it is appropriate that the commencement date of the bill should tie in with the date from which the immigration department is authorised to issue hksar passports , " the spokesman said .
" the bill does not contain any offence provisions , " he added .
the bill will be introduced into the provisional legislative council tomorrow ( wednesday ) , an sar government spokesman said .
the spokesman said that the cnl had begun to apply to the hksar since $date this year .
" the standing committee of the national people 's congress (npcsc) has authorised the hksar immigration department to handle all chinese nationality - related applications in the hksar in the ' explanation of some questions by the standing committee of the national people 's congress concerning the implementation of the nationality law of the people 's republic of china in the hong kong special administrative region ' adopted by the npcsc on $date .
" local law is needed to provide for various details in the handling of chinese nationality - related applications , such as fees and offences , " the spokesman explained .
he said the government proposed that the bill should have retrospective effect from $date . " this is because the cnl has begun to apply to the hksar from $date and the authorisation for the hksar immigration department to process chinese nationality - related applications also takes effect from that date . " the retrospective effect will , however , not be applicable to the offence provision , " the spokesman added .
bill to suspend operation of seven members ' bills the administration will introduce the legislative provisions ( suspension of operation ) bill $number into the provisional legislative council tomorrow ( wednesday ) for three readings to suspend the operation of the legislative changes effected by seven members ' bills passed by the previous legislative council at its last sitting of the $number session .
the object is to allow a proper and thorough scrutiny of the implications of the various legislative changes to determine whether the provisions are in the public interest .
these members ' bills came into effect when they were gazetted on $date and the seven ordinances in question are : - protection of the harbour ordinance ; - employment ( amendment ) ( no.
$number ) ordinance $number ; - occupational deafness ( compensation ) ( amendment ) ordinance $number ; - employment ( amendment ) ( no.5 ) ordinance $number ; - employees ' rights to representation , consultation and collective bargaining ordinance $number ; - trade unions ( amendment ) ( no.2 ) ordinance $number ; and - hong kong bill of rights ( amendment ) ordinance $number .
a government spokesman explained today that it was necessary to suspend the operation of the legislative changes effected by these ordinances as early as possible as " they represent a major departure from government policies and may have adverse long - term effects on the community " .
" we need to review these ordinances carefully and assess their practical consequences . we will consult parties concerned where necessary before deciding on the next step forward .
the review exercise will be completed by $date , " he said .
he also noted that most of these ordinances had not been scrutinised by a bills committee , five of which relate to labour matters .
" the administration will assess carefully the impact of these five ordinances on our labour relations system and the economy , " he said .
as part of the review process , the labour advisory board (lab) , the well - established tripartite consultative mechanism on labour issues , will be consulted .
earlier , the lab had considered these five ordinances and advised against their hasty passage through legco in their present form as the board needed more time to study their provisions . this was particularly the case for the one on employees ' rights to representation , consultation and collective bargaining , given its far - reaching implications .
" the lab will now have the opportunity to continue its deliberations on these important issues , " the spokesman said .
" similarly , we will not bring the housing ( amendment ) ordinance $number and the interception of communications ordinance into operation .
we will fully analyse their impact in the same way as the seven ordinances above .
" we believe that our proposals represent a pragmatic approach which allows for a proper scrutiny of the implications of the various legislative changes to determine whether the provisions are truly in the public interest , " he added .
gazettal of united nations sanctions bill the government today ( tuesday ) gazetted the united nations sanctions bill , which seeks to empower the chief executive , on receiving the directive from the central people 's government (cpg) , to make regulations to implement sanctions decided by the united nations security council .
the secretary for trade and industry , miss denise yue , explained that the application of un sanctions to the hk special administrative region (hksar) was a matter relating to foreign affairs and therefore a matter for the cpg .
the chief executive had recently received directives from the cpg to implement the sanctions decided by the un security council against a number of places .
domestic legislation was required to give effect to these directives .
miss yue said : " implementation of un sanctions is also in the sar 's interest in order to uphold its reputation as a responsible trading partner and not as a conduit for circumventing un sanctions . "
" previously economic sanctions imposed by the un were enforced in hong kong by uk orders in council .
such orders have ceased to have effect after $date , " she said .
united nations sanctions vary from case to case but typically include one or more of the followings : * restrictions on imports from and exports to a named destinations ; * restrictions on financial transactions involving the government of a named country or area ; and * restrictions on aviation links with a named country or area .
to minimise the gap between the lapse of the previous measures and the introduction of the replacement ones to implement un sanctions , the government will introduce the bill to the provisional legislative council tomorrow ( wednesday ) .
" this fast - track procedure is required in order to minimise any attempt to use hong kong to circumvent the un sanctions in questions , " miss yue explained .
" given that the bill would provide the legislative tool to effect a directive within the prerogative of the cpg , we believe members of the provisional legislative council will understand and will cooperate in ensuring the speedy passage of the bill , " she added .
government 's position on reduction of rates explained in response to a petition made by the democratic alliance for betterment of hong kong to the executive council today ( tuesday ) for a reduction of rates by two percentage points , the deputy secretary for the treasury , mr martin glass , explained that the overall rates percentage charge had been reduced in the $number budget $number , which was an all - time low .
" we have also capped rates increase to $number $date $number and $date $number .
about $number of ratepayers in fact pay the same or lower rates $date $number after the general revaluation .
for the rest , the increase is no $number , below the inflation for the same period , " mr glass said .
" for example , the average increase for a small size domestic flat in the private sector is only $ $number per month , or around $number , while public housing tenants are largely unaffected , " he added .
" as for government rent charged in accordance with annex iii to the joint declaration and article $number of the basic law , it is entirely different from rates and the two should not be mixed together , " mr glass explained .
" rates are levied on the occupation of properties .
government rent on the other hand is charged for the extension of non - renewable land leases up to $number in place of premium payment , and for the granting of new leases for terms beyond $date and up to $number .
if property owners had to pay additional premium on a one - off basis , their financial burden would be a lot greater , " mr glass said .
" about $number tenements are subject to rates payments but only $number tenements are subject to government rent .
in the urban council area in particular , less than $number of private sector properties are subject to government rent .
it is therefore not justified and not equitable to reduce rates on the ground that government rent is also being charged , " mr glass further explained .
" further reduction in rates would affect rates as a stable source of revenue .
a two percentage points reduction would reduce rates revenue by over $ $number , i.e. we would forgo nearly all general rates , " mr glass said .
" the rates revenue for the municipal councils and therefore our municipal services would also be seriously affected .
in the case of the regional council area , the rates split is $number for regional council rates and $number for general rates .
a two percentage points reduction would mean forgoing all general rates and reducing regional council 's rates revenue by nearly $number .
this will reduce substantially the services provided by the regional council and adversely affect its plans to expand facilities for the people living in the new territories , " he added .
emergency slope stabilisation progressing at shatin monastery closure orders have been issued by the district court yesterday ( monday ) and today ( tuesday ) for the closure of all building structures within the $number buddha monastery in sha tin .
the assistant director of buildings ( specialist ) , mr philip lau , said that the closure orders issued yesterday covered the main temple and pagoda , monasteries , dormitories and ancillary buildings .
" these structures are located on land lots no. $number , $number , $number and $number , " he said .
" the closure order issued today covered various structures within land lot no. $number including the main access stairs to the monastery .
" temporary housing arrangements have been made for occupants of the affected structures , " he added .
mr lau said that the monastery would be re - opened once stabilisation works had been satisfactorily completed .
sar govt welcomes announcement on sar passport in response to the israeli government 's press statement , an sar government spokesman today ( tuesday ) welcomes the israeli government 's announcement that hksar passport holders will be given visa - free access to visit israel .
" this treatment reflects a vote of confidence in the sar passport . " it signifies the strong and welcome commitment of the israeli government to hong kong 's continued success , " he said .
the spokesman added that israeli nationals are welcome to continue to visit hong kong .
work plan for small and medium enterprises committee the small and medium enterprises ( smes ) committee considered that a pilot credit guarantee scheme (cgs) should be established in hong kong in order to provide support to small and medium enterprises on financing .
" the industry department is now working on a detailed proposal of the scheme in consultation with the relevant agencies within the government , including its scope , the limit of government 's liability and operational mechanism , and will submit the proposal to the committee for consultation shortly , " the chairman of the smes committee , mr denis lee , said at a press conference after the committee 's $number meeting today ( tuesday ) .
explaining the committee 's proposal , mr lee said the committee had agreed that , as a $number step , a pilot cgs of limited and manageable scope should be considered .
the other areas are human resources development (hrd) , technology support , market access , information access , quality support , environmental support and physical infrastructure .
task groups were set up to examine hrd , financing and information technology in greater detail .
" on human resources development , the committee considered that there was a mis - match of supply and demand of manpower and the manpower supply did not meet the needs of the smes , " mr lee said .
the committee had exchanged views with the government 's education and manpower branch on human resources development and made a number of recommendations to the vocational training council .
on information technology , the committee agreed to promote the use of information technology among smes .
the letter was issued to $number organisations , " mr lee said .
reviewing the committee 's work since its inception in $date last year , mr lee said the committee had initiated two projects , which would come into fruition in the year $number .
a directory summarising the major services and facilities that could support smes in their business activities will be produced .
the hard copy version of the directory will be available around $date and an internet version will be launched around the end of $number / early $number .
a smes conference will be held on $date to gain more thorough understanding of the issues affecting smes in their development and to propose measures to address them .
" the conference will be $number large - scale conference targeted at smes in hong kong .
the chief executive of the hong kong special administrative region has agreed to address the luncheon of the conference and senior government officials will be invited to officiate at the opening , " mr lee said .
turning to plans in the coming year , mr lee said the committee would continue its work in examining issues of concern to smes and identifying measures to support their further development .
" the committee will also initiate more projects to bring direct benefits to smes . projects under consideration include support measures and promotional strategies of information technology among smes , seminars to promote the use of information technology among smes , and mission to study overseas economies ' policies , " he said .
also speaking at the press conference , the director - general of industry and vice - chairman of the smes committee , mr francis ho , said the committee had rendered the government invaluable advice on measures to support the further development of smes in hong kong .
" the industry department will continue to support the work of the committee for the further development of hong kong 's smes , " he added .
couriers of forged travel documents jailed $number months three couriers , who tried to assist two chinese nationals to depart hong kong with forged travel documents and identity cards , each received a $number - month imprisonment sentence , said a spokesperson of immigration department today ( tuesday ) .
immigration officers under surveillance at the international airport arrested the three defendants and their two prc clients on $date , at departure hall immediately after their transaction .
among the three defendant , a $number - year - old unemployed man was convicted at district court of one count of possessing of a forged british national ( overseas ) passport and one count of possessing a forged hong kong identity card . he was sentenced to $number months ' imprisonment on each of the two charges , both ran concurrently .
$number defendant , a $number - year - old data entry clerk , was convicted two counts of aiding and abetting the using of forged travel documents , namely a bn ( o ) passport and a hong kong certificate of identity ( c / i ) . he was also jailed $number months for each of the charge , both ran concurrently .
$number defendant , a $number - year - old worker , sold his c / i to a man in china for $ $number in $date .
his travel document was later used to assist one of the two prc nationals to check - in for a australia - bound flight .
the defendant was found guilty of one count of possessing a forged c / i and one count of misleading a police officer while reporting lost of his c / i. he was jailed $number months ' for $number charge and another two months ' imprisonment for $number charge , both ran concurrently .
cases revealed that a man nicknamed " boss " approached the two chinese nationals in early $date in fujian , china . boss offered to arrange the two to go to australia to take up employment , at a cost of rmb $number .
the two arrived hong kong in late $date under the arrangement of boss .
they were escorted to the international airport by $number and $number defendants while $number defendant assisted in the check - in procedures for the two prc nationals for a departing flight for australia .
after completing the check - in procedures at the airlines counter , $number defendant gave the two prc nationals a forged bn ( o ) passport , a forged c / i and two forged hong kong identity cards .
immediately after the handover , the party were intercepted by immigration officers who had been monitoring the whole process .
the two prc nationals were each sentenced to six months imprisonment in $date for charges in connection with false prc passports and in possession of forged hong kong travel documents .
" it is an offence in law to use forged , false or unlawfully obtained or altered travel documents , offenders are liable to prosecution and upon conviction , the maximum penalty will be a fine of $ $number and imprisonment for $number years , " the immigration spokesperson said .
the spokesperson added that possession or use another person 's identity card is a serious offence . the maximum penalty is a fine of $ $number and imprisonment for $number years .
exhibition and seminars on target oriented curriculum a three - day exhibition and a series of seminars on target oriented curriculum (toc) will be held at the wai hing theatre of the city university of hong kong from friday ( $date ) to $date .
entitled " collaboration : key to implementing the target oriented curriculum " , the function is organised by the education department 's curriculum development institute to encourage collaboration between parents , teachers , schools , education department and academics in implementing toc .
the vice principal of the toc assessment unit , mr sou hon - poo , today ( tuesday ) noted that so far , $number teachers from $number schools had applied for some $number seats of the nine sessions of seminars .
academics , school heads and teachers will deliver speeches and share their experiences in implementing toc .
speakers will give keynote speeches on ' adopting a " reflective " approach to teaching and learning ' , ' achieving quality education in the contexts of toc and school management initiative ' , ' making effective use of resources to support the curriculum ' and ' collaborating to achieve quality education in the implementation of toc ' .
experience sharing sessions on various aspects on toc including improving classroom practices through the integration of teaching , learning and assessment ; and school - based experiences of developing the chinese , english and mathematics curricula will be held .
" teaching and learning materials from toc schools will be displayed at the exhibition , " mr sou added .
teachers and parents are welcome to visit the exhibition to be staged at the wai hing theatre of city university of hong kong , tat chee avenue , kowloon , from $number pm to $number pm on $date ; $number am to $number pm on $date ; and $number am to $number pm on $date .
as limited spaces for the seminars are still available , interested teachers who have not enrolled are also welcome . they can attend the seminars at the time mentioned above .
further enquiries should be directed to the toc education resources centre on $number $number .
volume & price statistics of external trade in $date in $date , the volume of hong kong 's re - exports increased by $number over a year earlier , while that of domestic exports decreased by $number .
taken together , the volume of total exports increased by $number .
concurrently , the volume of imports increased by $number .
the census and statistics department today ( tuesday ) released volume and price statistics of external trade for $date .
comparing $date with $date , the volume of hong kong 's re - exports increased by $number , while the volume of domestic exports decreased by $number .
taken together , the volume of total exports increased by $number .
meanwhile , imports increased by $number in volume .
the growth in volume of trade is derived from the growth in trade value with the effect of price changes discounted .
comparing $date with $date , the prices of re - exports and domestic exports decreased by $number and $number respectively .
import prices also decreased , by $number .
as regards price changes in $date over $date , the prices of re - exports and domestic exports decreased by $number and $number respectively , while import prices decreased by $number .
price changes are reflected by changes in unit value indices which are compiled based on average unit values or , for certain commodities , specific price data .
the terms of trade index , defined as the ratio of total export price index to import price index , rose by $number in $date over a year earlier , and by $number in $date over the same period last year .
analysed by end - use category , increases in re - export volume in $date over a year earlier were recorded for all categories viz . fuels ( $number ) ; capital goods ( $number ) ; foodstuffs ( $number ) ; raw materials and semi - manufactures ( $number ) ; and consumer goods ( $number ) .
over the same period of comparison , increases were recorded in the prices of re - exports of fuels ( $number ) and foodstuffs ( $number ) .
on the other hand , re - export prices of capital goods ; raw materials and semi - manufactures ; and consumer goods decreased by $number , $number and $number respectively .
comparing $date with $date , the volume of domestic exports of footwear increased significantly by $number .
on the other hand , the volume of domestic exports of radios of all kinds ; textile made - ups and related articles ; and travel goods , handbags and similar articles decreased sharply , by $number , $number and $number respectively .
over the same period of comparison , domestic export prices of metal ores and scrap showed a significant increase , by $number .
on the other hand , domestic export prices of electronic components and footwear decreased significantly , by $number and $number respectively .
the changes in the value , unit value and volume of imports by end - use category are shown in table $number . the import volume of foodstuffs increased by $number in $date compared with $date .
significant increases in import volume were noted of soya bean oil , peanut oil , vegetable oil and lard ; and rice .
however , notable decreases were recorded in the import volume of cereals and cereal preparations other than rice , wheat and flour ; and animals of the bovine species , live .
over the same period of comparison , the import volume of consumer goods increased by $number .
notable increases in import volume were noted of passenger motor cars ; and clothing .
however , the import volume of tobacco manufactures ; and radios , television - sets , gramophones , records , tape recorders and amplifiers decreased significantly .
the import volume of raw materials and semi - manufactures increased by $number in $date compared with $date .
rapid increases in import volume were noted of base metals other than iron and steel ; and wood , lumber and cork .
however , significant decreases were noted of raw cotton ; and wool and other animal hair .
imports of fuels decreased by $number in volume in $date compared with $date .
as regards capital goods , the volume of imports increased by $number in $date over $date .
notable increases were recorded in the import volume of office machinery ; and construction machinery .
the import volume of transport equipment ; and industrial machinery , other than electrical machinery and textile machinery however decreased .
comparing $date with $date , import prices of capital goods ; raw materials and semi - manufactures ; consumer goods ; and foodstuffs decreased by $number , $number , $number and $number respectively .
on the other hand , import prices of fuels increased by $number .
details of the above statistics are published in the $date issue of the " hong kong trade index numbers " .
the report will be available on sale around $date at hk $ $number per copy at either (i) the government publications centre on the ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway ; or (ii) the publications unit of the census and statistics department on the $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries regarding regular subscription to this report may be directed to the publications ( sales ) office of the information services department at $number floor , siu on centre , $number lockhart road , wan chai , hong kong ( tel . no. : $number $number ) and enquiries on trade indices to the census and statistics department ( tel . no. : $number $number ) .
hong kong life tables $number people in hong kong now live longer than before .
between $number and $number , the expectation of life at birth for males increased $number years ; that for females , $number years .
the mortality rate of hong kong is now very low by international standards .
further improvement in mortality will depend on people 's awareness to environment protection , smoking hazards , balanced diets and physical fitness .
the life expectancy is projected to continue to increase in the next $number years , yet the rate of increase during this period will be slower than that of the past .
$date , the expectations of life at birth for males and females are $number years and $number years respectively .
details on the present and future mortality conditions in hong kong , presented in the form of a life table , are contained in the report " hong kong life tables $number " published today ( tuesday ) by the census and statistics department .
apart from the life tables , the report also describes the method of constructing a life table .
the report , which is in bilingual form , is now on sale at hk $ $number per copy . purchases can be made at the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong . it is also available at the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
shun hing reading award scheme a total of $number students from $number schools will receive trophies , book coupons and certificates at the prize - giving ceremony of the $number shun hing reading award scheme tomorrow ( wednesday ) .
the aims of the reading award scheme are to help pupils to develop good reading habits and to improve their reading skills and language abilities . the use of library resources will also be promoted .
the scheme is organised by the library section of the education department and sponsored by the shun hing education and charity fund limited . all students of primary $number to secondary $number can participate .
it has been well received as reflected by the increasing number of participating schools and pupils .
insider dealing tribunal the financial secretary has appointed mr chan wai dune , charles and mr wu chi tso , john as lay members to the insider dealing tribunal set up to inquire into possible insider dealing in the listed securities of the chee shing holdings ltd . ( now renamed as tysan holdings ltd . ) during the period $date ( inclusive ) .
the appointments were made in accordance with section $number ( $number ) and section $number ( $number ) of the securities ( insider dealing ) ordinance , and with paragraph $number of the schedule thereto .
mr chan is a managing partner of charles chan , ip & fung and mr wu is the senior partner of john wu & company .
they will be sitting in the tribunal under the chairmanship of the honourable mr justice burrell .
preliminary hearing of the case will be held on thursday , $date at $number pm in room $number , peregrine tower , lippo centre , $number queensway .
hkma launches $number cd - rom the hong kong monetary authority (hkma) has released a cd - rom as an interactive guide to hong kong 's monetary and banking systems .
the cd - rom contains a digest of information in the hkma annual report and additional video clips corroborating the importance of hong kong as an international financial centre .
also included is a video clip on the minting of the ' $number commemorative gold coin and a computer animation showing the new extension of the convention & exhibition centre where the world bank / imf annual meetings will be held this $date .
useful features include a key word search function and a direct link to the internet . users of the cd - rom are able to access hkma 's website for the latest information by clicking a button .
the hkma cd - rom is available at major local bookstores at $ $number per copy . end wednesday , $date provisional legco supplement contents ======== $number .
public service ( administration ) order $number the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , made an executive order entitled ' public service ( administration ) order $number ' [ the order ] under article $number ( $number ) of the basic law on $date .
the order replaces and localises provisions in the letters patent and colonial regulations , which lapsed on $date , relating to the administration of the civil service .
he also made the ' public service ( disciplinary ) regulation ' [ the regulation ] in exercise of his power under the order .
the regulation replaces and localises sets of disciplinary regulations and directions made under the colonial regulations .
both the order and regulation are deemed to have come into operation on $date to provide for continuity .
commenting on the order , the secretary for the civil service , mr w k lam said : " provisions in the order and regulation are largely straightforward adaptation of corresponding provisions in the letters patent and colonial regulations .
they relate to the authority of the chief executive to appoint , dismiss and discipline public servants ; to act on representations made by public servants ; and to make related disciplinary regulations . "
" modifications are made only in a few areas to ensure that the final authority for the overall administration of the civil service rests locally in hong kong and in the chief executive .
" for instance , references to the secretary of state for foreign and commonwealth affairs of the united kingdom have been replaced , where appropriate , by references to the advice of the executive council , " mr lam explained .
the appeal channel for civil servants will also end in hong kong .
" as suggested by staff , the order provides the chief executive with the power to appoint a review board to consider certain cases of representations made to him .
" the making of this order is a clear indication that the civil service is an institution which straddles the transition with continuity , " mr lam said .
the order and regulation will be gazetted tomorrow ( friday ) .
hksar helps traders against anti - dumping actions the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) government will continue to do all it can to help the trade against any anti - dumping proceedings affecting hong kong traders , and traders should take an active role in defending against dumping allegations .
the acting assistant director - general of trade , mr david wong , said in a seminar today ( thursday ) that the hksar government was prepared to provide the traders with necessary support who were in the best position to defend their own interests .
mr wong 's topic is on the european union 's anti - dumping measures against products of hong kong and china .
" if there is an anti - dumping action against the products of hong kong , the hksar government will take a robust approach to defend our legitimate trade interests through both bilateral and multilateral means , " mr wong said .
" the hksar government will monitor closely the development and examine if the action is fair and measures up to the multilateral rules . where appropriate , we will lobby the investigating authorities , seek consultations and make representations . "
" if the disputes on anti - dumping actions cannot be resolved bilaterally , we will resort to the dispute settlement procedures under the wto where the circumstances so warrant , " mr wong added .
mr wong also urged the traders themselves to take an active role in an anti - dumping case .
" in face of an unfortunate anti - dumping case , traders should stand up to respond as they are best placed to defend their own interests . their cooperation with the importing countries is of utmost importance in anti - dumping proceedings .
" we will advise traders to make themselves known to and request questionnaire from the investigation authority within the time limit set if they are not named in a complaint ; make timely response to the questionnaire and request hearing to supplement the questionnaire if necessary , " he said .
" traders should also liaise closely with the importers including asking them to complete the questionnaire and lobby the relevant authorities ; keep close touch and cooperate with the trade department ; and seek expert advice from legal consultant and / or accountant if appropriate .
" on the part of the government , we will provide all support possible .
we will collect and disseminate information and intelligence ; answer enquiries ; encourage traders to respond to the investigation ; and monitor progress of proceedings . "
mr wong also noted that anti - dumping actions against chinese products going through hong kong are regarded as bilateral trade disputes between china and the importing country .
" there is no clear locus for the hksar government to intervene formally but we will still do our best to provide support to hong kong traders to help them defend their interests , " he said .
mr wong also appealed to traders to take precautionary action against possible anti - dumping proceedings .
" traders should understand what is dumping , anti - dumping and the possible impacts .
they should keep abreast of the situation of the export market and keep close contact with the importers . "
" traders could subscribe to trade department 's commercial information circulars , visit the trade department 's homepage ( http://www.info.gov.hk/trade ) , look for information in trade development council 's publications ( such as business alert ) and be sensitive to business news in the mass media . "
mr wong noted that there has been a world - wide proliferation of the use of anti - dumping action .
" we are concerned about possible misuses of such actions for protectionist ends , " he said .
" we are a staunch supporter of free trade and consider that anti - dumping as a trade instrument is somewhat out - of - date in the modern commercial world .
" we are pushing for reform of archaic anti - dumping rules in the multilateral trading system . meanwhile , we have to live with the present imperfect system . "
mr wong denounced anti - dumping measures against hong kong products .
" given our open economy and competitive environment , we consider that hong kong should not be subject to anti - dumping actions . "
$date a total of $number cases have been initiated by importing countries against hong kong products . in many cases the proceedings ended with no anti - dumping duties imposed .
new members appointed to the law reform commission the chairman of the law reform commission , the secretary for justice , miss elsie leung , today ( thursday ) announced the appointment of two new members to the commission . professor felice lieh mak and mr roderick woo have each been appointed for a term of three years .
professor lieh mak is the head of the department of psychiatry at the university of hong kong and the chairman of the medical council of hong kong .
mr woo , a solicitor in private practice , is a former president of the law society and currently a member of the high court rules committee .
miss leung welcomed the new appointments and said that she looked forward to working with them on the commission .
miss leung also announced the re - appointment of mr eric cheung and professor wesley - smith for a $number term as members of the commission .
miss leung said that she was pleased that the commission would continue to benefit from the experience and advice of mr cheung and professor wesley - smith .
professor lieh mak and mr woo replace professor h c kuan and mr robert ribeiro , qc , who are retiring after serving on the commission as members for six years . miss leung said that professor derek roebuck would also shortly be retiring as a member on his return to the united kingdom .
miss leung paid tribute to the significant contribution which all three retiring members had made to the work of the commission .
with these latest membership changes , the law reform commission now consists of $number members . they are : mr justice chan , mr eric cheung , professor yash ghai , dr lawrence lai , mr andrew liao , qc , professor felice lieh mak , mr gage mcafee , mr alasdair morrison , professor peter wesley - smith , mr justein wong and mr roderick woo .
the secretary for justice and the law draftsman are ex officio members .
five consent applications approved last month the lands department issued four pre - sale consents and a consent to assign in respect of residential units in uncompleted developments in $date .
three consents were for the pre - sale of $number residential units in ma on shan and tai po . the remaining one was a kindergarten in ma on shan . the completion dates range $date .
the consent to assign concerned a residential development in tsuen wan with $number units .
at the end of $date , a total of $number applications for pre - sale consents involving $number residential units and five applications in respect of commercial developments were pending approval .
these developments are located at various parts of the territory . their estimated completion dates are between $date and $date .
meanwhile , an application for consent to assign involving $number residential units was being processed .
tender results for government quarters the government property agency announced today ( thursday ) the outcome of the recent public tender exercise to sell government quarters to end - users .
of the $number units released for sale , the agency received $number tenders for the $number units in elm tree towers , wilshire tower and unicorn gardens . there was keen competition involving $number bids for one unit in elm tree towers ( $number / f , flat a1 ) .
one unit in unicorn gardens received no bids .
the successful bids received fell within the following range : elm tree towers $ $number to $ $number wilshire tower $ $number to $ $number unicorn gardens $ $number to $ $number the government property administrator , mr albert lai , was satisfied with the results .
new government cards issued a total of $number new departmental warrant cards ( dwcs ) and $number government identity cards ( gics ) with the new hksar emblem will be issued by the end of $date .
but $number dwcs and $number gics have been issued to most essential users and front line officers by $date this year , a government spokesman said today ( thursday ) .
both cards are produced by the security division of the government printing department with an estimated total cost of $ $number .
all government officers who require an official means of identification in connection with their work will be issued with the new gics .
these cards , which are printed in blue and black , are not issued unless there is a need .
apart from showing the official identity , the dwcs , printed in red and black , also provide information of the legal authority . at the back of the dwc is the extract of the law under which the officer is authorised to exercise certain power .
dwcs are issued by most departments to empower their designated officers to carry out some statutory authorities such as entry to premises , search or arrest .
both cards are printed on security paper which is sensitive to alteration .
they have watermarks of the hksar emblem and are coated with planchette , a special material that prevents alteration , and uv - light - visible - only dots .
the plastic lamination also has an uv - light - visible - only hksar emblem at the low right corner on both the front and back of the cards .
due to operational and administrative needs , however , five major law enforcement agencies have produced and issued their own new dwcs on $date .
they are hong kong police force , customs and excise department , fire services department , immigration department and independent commission against corruption .
$number pupils allocated secondary one places more than $number pupils have been allocated secondary one places in this year 's secondary school places allocation (sspa) , the results of which will be released tomorrow ( friday ) .
" all $number pupils participating in the sspa have been allocated a place in government , aided or private bought - place secondary schools , " senior education officer , mrs lai cheung mei - ling , said .
" it includes $number pupils , or $number per cent , who have successfully obtained the discretionary places they applied for earlier this year .
" a total of $number pupils , or $number per cent , have been allocated places according to their $number choice and $number pupils , or $number per cent , according to their $number three choices .
" in addition to the $number pupils , a total of four pupils participating in the exercise have been admitted to secondary schools in the direct subsidy scheme , " mrs lai said .
allocation results will be available from pupils ' primary schools on friday ( $date ) .
pupils should collect the " allocation slip / admission slip " in accordance with the arrangements of their schools . the registration period is $date and $date . all pupils must report to the secondary schools which they have been allocated during the registration period .
in case both the pupil and the parent / guardian are away from hong kong during the registration period , they should authorise representatives in writing to complete the registration procedure on their behalf .
copies of authorisation letter can be obtained from their primary school heads .
in case of genuine difficulties , parents or pupils concerned should inform the school places allocation section (spas) of the education department before the end of the registration period so that alternative arrangement can be made .
when reporting to the secondary schools for registration , pupils are expected to put on school uniform .
they must bring the following document : * the allocation slip / admission slip ; * birth certificate , hong kong juvenile identity card or other documentary evidence of date of birth and the status as permanent resident of hong kong ; ( note : pupils should also bring along their valid travelling documents if the symbol " c " ( for conditional stay ) is found at line $number of the hong kong identity card ) ; * latest school reports , if any ; and * two recent passport - sized photographs .
parents seeking transfer for their children should apply directly to the schools they prefer . acceptance is at the discretion of the schools concerned .
parents and pupils are reminded that retrieval of their admission slips from the schools will be taken as giving up the place allocated .
" in case of tropical cyclones , persistent heavy rain or thunderstorms during the registration period , heads of schools and parents should pay attention to announcements in the media for any special arrangements , " mrs lai said .
enquiries concerning the allocation results should be directed to the spas on $number $number or $number $number during office hours .
avid readers awarded a total of $number students from $number primary and secondary schools will tomorrow ( friday ) receive prizes at the epson foundation reading awards presentation ceremony of the english extensive reading scheme (eers) in recognition of their outstanding achievements in the inter - school book report competition of the scheme .
among the participants , $number best readers have each read $number books in the $number school year .
" the eers is an education department initiative aimed at promoting reading habits among students and improving their english proficiency through reading , " the deputy director of education , mr kwan ting - fai , said .
he highlighted both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the scheme .
" numbers aside , our english extensive reading scheme also emphasises the integration of reading with other language skills .
" students are often engaged in a wide variety of activities before , during and after reading , " he added .
the reading scheme provides a good chance for students to develop a good reading habit . the english standard of students joining the scheme is expected to be improved tremendously through the scheme as they have a much wider exposure to the english language through the reading of english literature or story books .
mr kwan pointed out that , in line with the recommendations of education commission report no. $number , extensive reading would be extended to all levels of primary and secondary schooling by phases from $date onwards .
the eers was introduced to secondary schools in $date and was extended to primary schools in the $number school year .
in the $number school year , around $number students from $number secondary schools and $number primary schools took part in the scheme .
in the $number school year , the final phase of the secondary scheme , another $number schools will be enrolled , bringing the total number of participating schools to $number .
as regards the primary scheme , another $number schools will join the scheme this $date .
appointment discs for measles campaign available next week appointment discs for phase i of the special measles vaccination campaign conducted by the department of health (dh) will be available for collection from next week ( monday , $date ) , although the vaccination programme will begin on $date .
a spokesman for dh said the appointment system would facilitate more orderly delivery of service .
" appointment discs will be available for collection during office hours from the department 's $number general out - patient clinics (gopc) and $number maternal and child health centres (mchc) , " he said .
$number phase of the vaccination programme for people aged $number will take place from $date and $date at the department 's gopcs and mchcs .
he appealed to anyone within this age group who have never received measles vaccine before or who have only received one dose of measles vaccine to come forward for vaccination during this period .
secondary school students who have appointments with dh 's student health service (shs) between $date and $date will be offered vaccination at the shs centres .
phase two of the campaign will be targeted at children aged six to $number or those studying in primary schools .
vaccination will be given at their schools by inoculation teams from dh between $date and $date this year .
phase three is mainly for young children aged one to five and those in kindergartens .
vaccination will be provided at the gopcs and mchcs between $date and $date .
as in phase one , appointment discs for this group will be available for collection two weeks before i.e. from $date .
" although the campaign is targeted at measles , mmr ( measles , mumps and rubella ) vaccine will be given free to vaccinees during the campaign , " the spokesman said .
" this will provide additional protection for those who have not been immunised against mumps and rubella . "
" alternatively , members of the public may also obtain vaccination from their private medical practitioners at their own expense . "
a special hotline on measles tel no : $number $number is now in operation to provide the public with information on measles and arrangements for the special measles vaccination campaign .
leaflets on the campaign together with consent forms and information on addresses of inoculation centres are now available for collection at various district offices .
to facilitate efficient service , vaccinees are asked to bring along their immunisation record cards and consent forms when obtaining vaccinations .
illicit diesel oil smugglers arrested customs officers today ( thursday ) smashed a syndicate suspected of smuggling illicit diesel oil into the territory following the arrest of five men and seizure of $number litres of illicit diesel oil .
acting on information , officers from the diesel oil enforcement division , with the assistance of two patrol vessels from the marine and land enforcement command , laid an ambush near the waterfront in tai lam chung near castle peak early this morning . at $number am , the officers swung into action after seeing the five suspects pumping diesel oil onto a lorry from a sand barge . the five men , including three mainlanders , were arrested red - handed .
the seizure , comprising the sand barge , the lorry and the illicit diesel oil , was worth about $ $number .
meanwhile , a spokesman for the customs and excise department stressed that the department was determined to take all effort to repress all kinds of illicit diesel oil activities .
" anyone having information on illicit diesel oil could call the customs hotline $number $number , " he added .
electoral affairs commission bill gazetted an independent commission will be set up to oversee practical arrangements for elections of the legislative council , the municipal councils and the district boards , an sar government spokesman announced today ( friday ) .
" the commission will ensure that the elections are conducted openly , fairly and honestly , " the spokesman said .
the electoral affairs commission bill , which provides for the setting up of the electoral affairs commission , is gazetted today .
the bill sets out the composition of the commission , its powers and functions , and the criteria which the commission has to follow in making recommendations on constituency boundaries .
the spokesman said that the stringent criteria for appointment of the commission 's members would ensure its impartiality and integrity .
" all three members of the commission are to be politically neutral persons and appointed by the chief executive .
" to enhance the neutrality of the commission , the chairman will be a high court judge to be nominated by the chief justice of the court of final appeal , " he said .
the commission 's recommendations on geographical constituency boundaries will have regard to representation from the public .
a consultation period will be provided for in the legislation .
the spokesman explained that the commission would also be given statutory powers to make regulations relating to election arrangements and procedures , including regulations on voter registration .
an independent body was set up $date for making recommendations on geographical constituency boundaries and for supervising the conduct of the three - tier elections .
" there is strong expectation from the public that there should be a similar body for future elections . the establishment of the electoral affairs commission will achieve just that , " the spokesman said .
the bill will be introduced into the provisional legislative council on $date .
fs visits elderly cssa recipients the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , today ( friday ) visited three singleton elderly persons in sham shui po . this is in honour of his promise made earlier this year while petitioned by an elderly group .
the three elderly persons visited by the financial secretary were madam ho yee , mr hong man and madam ngan sau - fong .
they were all recipients of comprehensive social security assistance (cssa) and had applied for aged home placements .
accompanied by the director of social welfare , mr andrew leung , mr tsang $number called on $number - year - old madam ho , who lives by herself in a housing unit in shek kip mei estate .
mr tsang was told that madam ho had been living on cssa since her retirement from hawking in $date .
she has also been getting home help service for house cleaning and escort service for attending medical treatments .
the financial secretary next visited $number - year - old mr hong , a retired ship building factory worker with sound health , who lives by himself in a small room in a private tenement building in yiu tung street .
mr hong has successfully applied for a place at a home for the elderly and would be admitted at the end of $date .
the last stop on the visit programme was madam ngan whom mr tsang met earlier at a petition .
also living alone in a housing unit in shek kip mei estate , the $number - year - old madam ngan has been receiving cssa standard payment as well as rent and telephone charge allowances since $date .
since $date this year , she has been waitlisted for a residential placement for the elderly .
speaking after the visits , mr tsang said : " the visits have helped me gain some $number - hand information about the life of our elderly living on their own .
i am sure they will improve my understanding and consideration of various institutions being made to assist our senior citizens . " " i share the chief executive 's commitment to improve elderly welfare in hong kong .
they have contributed to the success of our community in the past .
we in the community share a responsibility to ensure that they can lead a dignified life in the old age , " he said . " over the years , the government has spared no efforts in improving welfare services for the elderly .
" we would tackle the resource problems relating to the funding of improvements to elderly welfare in the forthcoming resource allocation exercise .
we will keep an open mind . "
heritage conservation requires community efforts the acting chief executive , mrs anson chan , said tonight ( friday ) that the promotion of heritage conservation is no easy task , but she firmly believed that it could be achieved through concerted efforts from all sectors of the community .
speaking at the year of heritage gala evening , mrs chan said that antiquities and monuments were precious legacy of culture that recorded the historical changes of society .
without proper preservation , they would easily be buried away with time and development .
with an aim to preserve these valuable archaeological relics , she said , the government enacted the antiquities and monuments ordinance and set up the antiquities advisory board as early as $number , followed by the setting up of the lord wilson heritage trust $date .
" drawn from all walks of life , the chairmen and members of these organisations are all ardent supporters of these worthy causes .
their dedicated efforts have ensured that a wealth of historical treasures of hong kong is conserved for the community . "
earlier , in his welcoming speech , the chairman of the board of trustees of the lord wilson heritage trust , mr alexander s k au , said that the whole world has joined hong kong to look back on its past on this historic occasion of the handover , which had become a focus of world media .
he said : " hong kong 's history spans not just $number years , but a lengthy $number $number years . as residents , we take great pride in being a part of it .
" hong kong is a modern business and finance centre . the fact that in this concrete jungle there are still quite a number of antiquities and monuments that bear testimony of the $number $number years of development has made us feel the more gratified .
" living in hong kong , there is a need for us to better understand our country and the place we brought up .
understanding our past will no doubt help strengthen our sense of belonging to the community . "
the joint effort of the trust , the antiquities advisory board and the antiquities and monuments office of the broadcasting , culture and sport bureau in organising the year of heritage is to put the message across to the public at large , he added .
strolling along the trail is perhaps the best time to reminisce once again the changes and development that the territory has undergone over the years , he said .
another major event will be the international conference at the end of the year to further promote the message of heritage preservation .
with a host of programmes , including an exhibition , an auction and performances by the academy for performing arts , the gala evening raised $number dollars for the trust to finance the year of heritage and the future development of heritage - related activities .
applications for legal aid a spokesman for the legal aid department said today ( friday ) that since $date , the department has to date received $number applications for legal aid from parents of mainland children to challenge the amended immigration ordinance .
according to the department , legal aid has been offered to six applicants this afternoon , and six applicants will be offered legal aid tomorrow .
the remaining applications will continue to be processed and decisions will be made soon .
issuance of the code of banking practice the code of banking practice ( " the code " ) is issued jointly by the hong kong association of banks (hkab) and the deposit - taking companies association (dtca) today ( friday ) after an extensive consultation exercise .
both mr chris langley , chairman of hkab and mr alex au , chairman of dtca expressed full support to the code and said their members would take active steps to comply with it as quickly as possible .
mr raymond li , executive director ( banking policy ) of the hong kong monetary authority (hkma) welcomed the issue of the code .
" the code will further enhance the transparency and quality of banking services in hong kong , " said mr li .
" we fully endorse the provisions of the code and we will monitor compliance as part of our regular supervision , " he added .
the code has been developed by a working group comprising representatives of the industry associations and the hkma .
the code comprises five chapters : relationship between banks and customers opening and operation of accounts and loans card services payment services debt collection .
a draft of the code was issued to the industry associations and other interested parties for consultation in $date this year .
extensive comments were received during the consultation period . this has greatly assisted in improving the draft code .
as in other financial centres , the code will be subject to review and revision from time to time in the light of operational experience and market developments .
the code will be available to the public through designated branches of the hongkongbank : $number floor , $number queen 's road central , hong kong ; mongkok office $number nathan road , kowloon ; and shatin centre - shop 3 0 d , level $number , shatin centre shopping arcade , n. t. the code is also accessible through the hkma internet website ( http://www.info.gov.hk/hkma ) .
appointment to advisory committee to the sfc the financial secretary has appointed mr linus cheung , peter clarke , stephen hui and andrew lo as members of the advisory committee to the securities and futures commission (sfc) for two years ending $date .
announcing this today ( friday ) , the secretary for financial services , mr rafael hui said : " mr sydney leong has also been appointed as member of the advisory committee with effect from $date after he retires as the vice - chairman of the hong kong futures exchange at the end of $date . "
five other current members are re - appointed for a further term of two years . they are mr henry cheong , paul gallagher , leong ka - chai , liang xiao - ting and dr alex wu .
these appointments have been made by the financial secretary acting under delegated authority from the chief executive in respect of section $number of the sfc ordinance .
the membership of the advisory committee also includes two executive directors appointed by the sfc , while the chairman of the sfc presides at the committee 's meetings .
mr hui said : " the membership of the committee is a well - blend of respectable representatives from not only the securities and futures industries , but also other professional fields .
this enables them to give independent and impartial advice to sfc on matter of policy and market development . "
mr hui also thanked the retiring members , namely mr henry cheng , patrick wang , paul fan , kevin westley , victor chu and philip gray for their valuable services and contribution to the committee .
granting banking licence to the zenshinren bank a spokesman for the hong kong monetary authority said today ( friday ) that the zenshinren bank (zb) had been granted a banking licence by the monetary authority under the banking ordinance on $date .
zb is the $number largest bank in the world in terms of asset size and its operation network comprises $number domestic branches , an overseas branch in new york , three overseas representative offices in london , singapore and hong kong and a securities subsidiary in london .
it has been operating in hong kong as a representative office since $date .
zb wishes to upgrade its representative office to a full branch in hong kong to enable zb to expand its banking and investment business in the asian region and to provide additional support to japanese companies who are increasing their presence in hong kong and mainland china .
after the grant of a banking licence to zb , the number of licensed banks in hong kong has increased to $number of which $number were incorporated in hong kong .
employment and vacancy statistics of $date released according to the figures released today ( friday ) by the census and statistics department , employment in most of the major service sectors continued to record notable increases in $date over a year earlier .
employment at construction sites also registered a further significant year - on - year increase .
on the other hand , employment in the manufacturing sector remained on a downtrend .
in $date , vacancies in the manufacturing sector and all major service sectors increased markedly over $date .
these increases were consistent with the steady growth in economic activity , though partly also attributable to a low base of comparison in $date .
vacancies at construction sites also registered a substantial increase .
taking all the major sectors surveyed together , there were around $number $number vacancies in $date , up $number from the $number $number vacancies recorded in $date .
in terms of the number of persons engaged , the wholesale , retail and import / export trades , restaurants and hotels sector was the largest , employing $number $number $number persons in $date . this was followed by the financing , insurance , real estate and business services sector , with an employment of $number $number ; the community , social and personal services sector , $number $number ; the manufacturing sector , $number $number ; and the transport , storage and communications sector , $number $number .
also , there were $number $number manual workers at construction sites .
in terms of change from a year earlier , employment of manual workers at construction sites showed the most significant increase , by $number in $date .
this was followed by employment in the financing , insurance , real estate and business services sector , increased by $number ; the community , social and personal services sector , by $number ; the transport , storage and communications sector , by $number ; and the wholesale , retail and import / export trades , restaurants and hotels sector , by $number .
employment in the manufacturing sector , on the other hand , fell by $number .
as regards the vacancy situation in individual sectors , the wholesale , retail and import / export trades , restaurants and hotels sector had the largest number of vacancies , with $number $number in $date .
this was followed by the financing , insurance , real estate and business services sector , with $number $number ; the community , social and personal services sector , with $number $number ; the manufacturing sector , with $number $number ; and the transport , storage and communications sector , with $number $number .
in terms of change from a year earlier , vacancies for manual workers at construction sites recorded a substantial increase of $number .
this was followed by vacancies in the financing , insurance , real estate and business services sector , increased by $number ; the wholesale , retail and import / export trades , restaurants and hotels sector , by $number ; the transport , storage and communications sector , by $number ; the manufacturing sector , by $number , and the community , social and personal services sector , by $number .
of the total of some $number $number vacancies ( other than those in the civil service ) recorded in $date , the majority fell into four major occupation groups , viz . associate professionals ; clerks ; service workers and shop sales workers ; and elementary occupations .
they together accounted for over three - quarters of the total number of vacancies in all the major sectors surveyed .
in $date , vacancies in most of the major occupation groups continued to show significant increases over a year earlier .
amongst them , vacancies in the craft and related workers category showed the largest increase , by $number .
this was followed by vacancies in the clerks category , by $number ; the elementary occupations category , by $number ; the plant and machine operators and assemblers category , by $number ; the service workers and shop sales workers category , by $number ; the associate professionals category , by $number ; and the professionals category , by $number .
vacancies in the managerial and administrative occupation category however fell by $number , after a marked rise in the preceding quarter .
job vacancy figures broken down by major occupation group are shown in table $number . the above statistics for $date were derived from the quarterly survey of employment and vacancies , the supplementary survey of job vacancies and the quarterly employment survey of construction sites conducted by the department .
in the former two surveys , some economic activities ( e.g. those where self - employment is predominant , such as taxi operators , hawkers and freelance authors ) are not covered and hence the respective employment and vacancy figures relate only to those selected industries included in the surveys .
in the latter survey on construction sites , employment and vacancy figures relate to manual workers only .
detailed breakdowns of the above statistics are available from the quarterly report of employment , vacancies and payroll statistics , $date and the quarterly report of employment and vacancies at construction sites , $date .
they will be available at hk $ $number per copy and hk $ $number per copy ( both exclusive of postage ) respectively at the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong and at the publications unit of the census and statistics department on the $number floor , wan chai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
hksar 's trade policy remains unchanged the implementation of " one country , two systems " policy in the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) means the continuation of hong kong 's established trade policy , assistant director - general of trade , mr patrick nip said today ( friday ) .
speaking at a seminar organised by the hong kong trade development council , mr nip said the continuation of the free trade policy and other important ingredients for hong kong were enshrined in the sino - british joint declaration and the basic law .
in line with the autonomous trading status hong kong will continue to enjoy , there will be no merging of hong kong and mainland china 's textiles quotas ; no change in the ' made in hong kong ' label ; and no merging of hong kong and mainland china 's trade statistics .
mr nip noted that the integrity of the hksar trading system is the cornerstone of its separate customs territory status .
" hong kong will continue to be a full and separate member of the wto , using the name ' hong kong , china ' , and we will continue to implement faithfully our obligations under the wto agreement on textiles and clothing , " he said .
" it should be clear that hong kong 's regime governing the textiles and clothing trade will remain unchanged .
" and we take our multilateral and bilateral obligations very seriously . we remain fully committed to maintaining the utmost vigilance over any attempt to abuse the origin rules .
" we will continue with our initiatives to enhance our textiles control system .
we will continue to work with our trading partners to enhance both sides ' effectiveness in the common objective of tackling illegal transshipment .
" at the same time , we will seek to ensure that any action taken by our trading partners should not be discriminatory in nature , should not target hong kong and should not affect adversely legitimate traders , " he added .
in the seminar , mr nip highlighted the recent developments regarding the us documentation requirements for textiles imports to the us .
in $date last year , the us unilaterally imposed a series of additional import measures targeting certain garments imported from hong kong .
after various bilateral exchanges , the us has in the past months modified such measures .
most recently , the us customs announced in early $date that with effect from $date , new term bond requirement for companies importing textiles and apparel products , regardless of the source of the imports , will be set at $number of the value of world - wide imports for the previous calendar year , with lower and upper ceilings us $ $number and $ $number respectively .
" we note that this is an improvement over the $date arrangements under which hong kong was singled out for a single entry bond requirement .
" under the latest us move , the single entry bond is removed , and the new term bond requirement is applicable to all textile and apparel imports , regardless of country of origin .
" however , we need to continue to keep a close watch on the implementation of the new term bond requirement to ensure that in practice there will be no discriminatory treatment against hong kong 's import , " he said .
" we will pursue further with the us customs on the early removal of any discriminatory treatment against hong kong , in particular the importer 's certification and additional documentation requirement for entries from 'suspect manufacturers ' , " he added .
airmail services to cambodia suspended the postmaster general , mr robert footman , announced today ( friday ) that because of the situation in cambodia , all airmail services to that country , including speedpost , are temporarily suspended with immediate effect .
a further announcement will be made as soon as services can be resumed .
school works in tseung kwan o the architectural services department ( arch sd ) will begin works in $date to build three secondary schools and two primary schools in area $number and $number in tseung kwan o respectively .
upon completion in $date , the schools will provide a total of $number secondary school places and $number primary school places in the new town .
" these schools will be built by using a new construction approach - - - the ' structural system design ' , " a spokesman for the arch sd said today ( friday ) .
" under this approach , the contractor will be required to propose a structural design and construction system using non - timber formwork or prefabricated elements to minimise the use of timber formwork and in - situ construction , " the spokesman said .
" the method is aimed at minimising construction waste and the use of hardwood , improving the quality of construction , developing mechanisation on site and reducing construction time and cost , " he noted .
the schools will each comprise a classroom block and an attached assembly hall .
each primary school will contain $number classrooms , four special rooms , three remedial teaching rooms , one basketball court , covered playground and car park .
each secondary school will have $number classrooms , $number special rooms , three remedial teaching rooms , one basketball court , covered playground and carpark .
these surveys are conducted annually by the department to collect up - to - date statistical data for evaluating the contribution of various economic activities to hong kong 's gross domestic product and for ascertaining their cost structure and operating characteristics .
the survey results are useful to both the government and the private sector in formulating policies and making decisions .
questionnaires were mailed in $date - may to $number establishments selected for the $number annual surveys .
the establishments concerned are required by law to return the completed questionnaires to the department by $date this year .
the commissioner for census and statistics , mr frederick ho , appealed to the management of all selected establishments to fulfil their legal and social responsibilities by returning promptly the completed questionnaires and co - operating with officers of the department in the course of the surveys .
any person who is unable to return the completed questionnaire within the time specified is required to declare with reasons his inability in doing so .
each questionnaire of these annual economic surveys has been so designed that respondents can complete it by themselves .
if necessary , officers of the census and statistics department , who carry a government identity card and a certificate for conducting the respective surveys , will visit the establishments concerned to assist them in completing the questionnaires . mr ho pointed out that audited accounts are not essential for the supply of income and expenditure data required by the surveys .
the census and statistics department accepts figures based on preliminary accounts or estimates which are correct to the best of the respondents ' knowledge at the time of submission of the questionnaire , if audited accounts are not yet available .
he also stressed that information relating to individual establishments would be treated in strict confidence under the census and statistics ordinance . only aggregate information that does not reveal details of individual establishments will be released .
international mathematical olympiad ten mathematics talents will be awarded prizes at the prize presentation ceremony of international mathematical olympiad (imo) hong kong selection contest $number and asian pacific mathematics olympiad (apmo) $number tomorrow ( saturday ) .
the gold award of apmo goes to mok tze - tao , edmond , of queen 's college . leung wing - chung of queen elizabeth school and chan chung - lam of bishop hall jubilee school win the silver award .
the bronze award winners are fung ho - yin of tsuen wan public ho chuen yiu memorial college ; mak wai - yip , vincent , of wah yan college (hk) ; wong kwok - tai of li po chun united world college ; and lau lap - ming , alvin , of st paul 's college .
cheng chi - sum of shaukeiwan government secondary school , chan ming - chiu of la salle college , and yeung yi - pok of pui shing catholic secondary school win the honourable mention .
besides , six secondary students are selected members of the imo hong kong , china team $number . they are chan chung - lam of bishop hall jubilee school , cheung pok - man of stfa leung kau kui college , lau lap - ming , alvin , of st paul 's college , leung wing - chung of queen 's elizabeth school , mok tze - tao , edmond , and yu ka - chun of queen 's college .
alternate members are chan ming - chiu of la salle college , cheng chi - sum of shaukeiwan government secondary school , hui wa - yam of heung to middle school , kee wing - tao of po leung kuk centenary li shiu chung memorial college , ng ka - man of stfa leung kau kui college and wong kwok - tai of li po chun united world college .
the team will be presented the flag at the ceremony and is ready to set off for argentina , the hosting country for the imo $number .
it also promotes students ' interest in mathematics and encourages teachers to exchange ideas on the development of mathematics education . the event provides opportunities to establish personal and friendly contacts among participants as a means to contribute international understanding .
the imo came into being $date when romania invited six other countries in eastern europe to send a team of high school students to participate in a mathematics competition .
since then the imo has become an important annual event in the mathematics world of secondary school students .
$date , hong kong sent her $number team to the imo .
new airport visits project a huge success the overwhelming response to the new airport tours organised by the home affairs department and the airport authority under the " getting to know our new airport " project has clearly demonstrated the public 's interest and support for the architectural and engineering masterpiece at chek lap kok , the secretary for economic services , mr stephen ip , said today ( saturday ) .
speaking at the closing ceremony of the event , which was one of the community building projects organised to celebrate the handover , mr ip said it was not surprising the public was keen on visiting the new airport as its main features was so attractive .
he said it was meaningful in this historic year to give members of the community a preview of the new airport site less than a year before it was scheduled to open to see the works progress of our most ambitious project .
he noted that hong kong will enter a new era next year with the opening of the new airport , which will provide $number - rate facilities to tourists and business travellers .
" the completion of the new airport will help maintain hong kong 's prime status in international and regional aviation business . it is an achievement that hong kong people should be proud of , " mr ip said .
also speaking at the closing ceremony , the vice - chairman of the airport authority , mr lo chung - hing , said the public had , in the past few weeks , gained a much better understanding of the operational aspects and land transport network of the new airport through the organised visits .
" they can experience $number - rate facilities when the new airport come into operation in $date next year and take pride in seeing the completion of such a massive and complicated undertaking within a few years , " mr lo said .
about $number people had joined the airport tours organised by the home affairs department to complement the handover and to promote greater public awareness and pride in hong kong 's achievements .
a related exhibition at lai king community hall had attracted some $number visitors on weekends and public holidays between $date and $date .
the highlight of today 's ceremony was the lucky draw officiated by the deputy managing director of cathay pacific airways , mr phillip chen . one lucky visitor to the new airport will win two return economy class tickets to tokyo plus three nights ' accommodation .
the lucky draw result will be announced in ming pao , sing tao daily news , the south china morning post and the hong kong standard on $date .
also present at today 's ceremony were the director of home affairs , mrs shelley lau , and the airport authority corporate development director , mr clinton leeks .
hksar passport project party the immigration department yesterday ( friday ) held a party to celebrate the successful completion of the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) passport project .
the function was attended by some $number guests from system suppliers , service companies and representatives of government departments which have participated in the project .
the newly introduced hksar passport is rated as one of the best passports in the world because of its high standards of printing and security .
" we employ state - of - the - art technology to produce this passport " , the department 's spokesman said , " our system is a truly international product , as we use products and technologies from many countries : canada , france , hungary , israel , japan , switzerland and usa . "
so far $number countries have accorded visa - free access to hksar passport holders , and another seven have announced that they will allow hksar passport holders the same treatment as bn ( o ) passport holders .
demand for the new passport is overwhelming .
the department has received around $number applications .
wsd achieves satisfactory results in performance targets the water supplies department today ( saturday ) announced its achievements in meeting the performance targets set $number as well as new performance pledge for $number .
the director of water supplies , mr hu man - shiu , said the department had very satisfactory results in achieving the performance targets announced last year .
" for the majority of the services , we scored $number per cent achievement rate , " mr hu said .
these services include fresh and salt water quality , response time for attending fault complaints , notice for planned suspension of water supply and duration of planned suspension of water supply .
on major service improvements $date / $number , mr hu pointed out that the opening of sham tseng and ma on shan treatment works were significant in coping with the increase in water demand in new towns .
" meanwhile , the mainland east water science laboratory at sha tin and the meter testing laboratory at lung cheung road have been successfully accepted by the hong kong laboratory accreditation scheme as accredited laboratories , " he said .
" the accreditation enhanced the control and monitoring of water quality and the water meter accuracy test , " he added .
mr hu noted : " a computerised cancel and rebill subsystem has been developed in collaboration with the treasury to automate the calculations of those water charges which require revision . " the new system shortens the processing time for issuing revised water bills . "
" after reviewing the $number results and taken into consideration our customers ' valuable suggestions , we have set higher targets for $number with a view to further improving our services , " mr hu continued .
" the new pledge aims to improve our services by promoting openness , accountability and by developing a client - based culture in the department .
" we pledge to provide a reliable , efficient and customer - oriented service to our customers and will make the best use of the available resources to achieve this goal , " mr hu added .
copies of a booklet containing details of the performance pledges of the water supplies department are available free of charge from the department 's customer enquiry centres and all district offices .
employees must be insured employers must take out insurance policies for their employees , otherwise they will face severe punishments .
senior labour officer ( prosecutions ) , mrs tonia leung , gave this warning today ( saturday ) following a recent court case in fanling magistracy in which the owner of kim wing engineering company limited in kam tin was fined $ $number for failing to provide insurance cover for the employees as required under section $number ( $number ) of the employees ' compensation ordinance (eco) .
" under the eco , employers are required to take out insurance cover for all their employees so that they can fulfil their legal obligations to pay compensation for work - related injuries , " said mrs leung .
" the labour department takes a serious view on compliance with this provision and our labour inspectors conduct frequent inspections to establishments to detect offences . "
the maximum penalty for committing the offence is a fine of $ $number and imprisonment for $number months .
ldc to redevelop macpherson stadium complex the land development corporation (ldc) will jointly redevelop the macpherson stadium complex site at yim po fong street , mong kok , with the hong kong playground association to provide modern recreational facilities and residential flats in the district .
a spokesman for the lands department said today ( sunday ) that under the joint venture project , the $number - square - metre site will be developed to provide an indoor stadium with $number seats , function rooms and a youth centre within a five - storey podium .
he said : " the adjoining urban council macpherson playground will be realigned .
" a residential block providing some $number flats will be constructed on top of the podium .
on the ground floor will be commercial shops .
" the owners affected by other ldc urban renewal projects will have priority to buy these flats at market value , " the spokesman added .
under the proposal , the ldc will bear all development costs and the costs of reprovisioning the playground .
the project will start later this year for completion in three to four years .
enforcement action against unauthorised building works the buildings department will take enforcement action against unauthorised building works to ensure public safety and that residents are free from health and environmental nuisance .
a spokesman for the department said today ( sunday ) that a statutory order had recently been served on a kennedy town restaurant requiring the owner of the premises to demolish all unauthorised building structures by the end of $date as the structures created a number of problems in the surrounding area .
" inspections by the department found that there are unauthorised building structures erected on the canopy , external walls and flat roof of the restaurant , posing danger to occupants of the building and the general public , " the spokesman said .
" vent ducts are also erected on $number floor flat roof projecting over the street , causing serious health and environmental hazard , " he added .
the spokesman stressed that the department took a serious view on health and environmental hazard created by unauthorised building works such as air - conditioning plants , exhaust ducts , ventilation structures and the like .
" immediate enforcement action will be taken once the nuisance exceeds the standard stipulated by the environmental protection department , " he said .
the spokesman said that failure to comply with a statutory order without reasonable excuse is a criminal offence under the buildings ordinance .
" the maximum penalty is one year imprisonment and a maximum fine of $ $number plus a daily fine of $ $number , " he added .
he stressed that any additions or alterations to buildings without the prior approval of the building authority would be regarded as unauthorised building works .
" these include metal cages , air - conditioning cooling towers , exhaust ducts , ventilation structures , canopies , flat roof structures , rooftop structures , subdivision of flats , structural alterations and drainage connections , " he said .
the spokesman said that it was the responsibility of the property owners to maintain their buildings in a safe and sound condition and free from unauthorised building works .
" owners should , in their own interest , take the initiative to organise for the demolition of unauthorised building works in their premises , " he added .
employment restrictions on women workers relaxed with effect from tomorrow ( monday ) , the restrictions on period of employment , hours of work , overtime and rest days imposed on women in industrial employment by the women and young persons ( industry ) regulations will be removed .
a spokesman for the labour department said today ( sunday ) : " the regulations originally deal with the employment of women and young persons aged $number in the industrial sector .
specifically , they prohibit the employment of women and young persons in dangerous trades , restrict their working hours , and provide for compulsory weekly rest days . "
" upon the enactment of the sex discrimination ordinance (sdo) in $date , the women - specific provisions of the regulations are regarded as discriminatory after a grace period expiring on $date .
" it is therefore necessary for the government to reconcile the inconsistency between the regulations and the sdo before this date . "
the spokesman said that in view of the imminent expiry of the grace period , the government planned to tackle the problem in two steps .
" $number step is to remove all women - specific provisions which are considered to be discriminatory by the deadline .
" after these women - specific provisions are invalidated , the regulations will continue to provide protection under the existing provisions to young persons aged $number working in the industrial sector .
" the relevant forms specified by the commissioner for labour for the purpose of the regulations will continue to be in force .
" in the meantime , we have studied overseas legislation and enforcement experience on working hours , and surveyed on patterns of working hours of the total labour force .
" we are now assessing the economic implications of extending regulation on working hours to both sexes of workers in some or all economic sectors .
" we will analyse the findings , and consult widely on any proposals before deciding our way forward , " he added .
tertiary students reminded to apply early for grants children or dependants of farming and fishing families in need of financial assistance for tertiary education are reminded to apply early for the agricultural products and marine fish scholarship funds .
a spokesman for the agriculture and fisheries department said applications for the scholarship and grants will close on $date ( saturday ) .
application forms are obtainable from the department 's headquarters on the $number floor of canton road government offices , $number canton road , kowloon and from various district agricultural and fisheries liaison offices .
" applicants should be hong kong residents under $number years of age , " the spokesman said .
" the awards will be tenable at any university in hong kong and any acceptable overseas institution . "
approved courses for tertiary education include those on agriculture , veterinary science , marine science and biology or any applied science directly relevant to the local agriculture or fisheries and related trades .
enquiries about application procedures may be directed to the secretary of the agricultural products and marine fish scholarship funds advisory committee on $number $number .
height restrictions on bridges in force the marine department today ( monday ) reminds vessel owners and operators to observe the height limits of the tung chung , kap shui mun and tsing ma bridges .
owners , operators , masters , coxswains and persons - in - charge of vessels , especially tug masters engaging in towing operations and persons - in - charge of dumb steel lighters , must ensure that the highest point of their vessels does not exceed the specified limit when entering the height restricted areas or approaching the bridges , a marine department spokesman said .
to achieve the maximum protection of the tung chung , kap shui mun and tsing ma bridges , the shipping and port control regulations have been amended to establish height restricted areas and height limits which come into force today .
the regulations provide for the conditions under which vessels are permitted to enter height restricted areas on the approaches to the bridges and the penalties for contravention .
the height limit of the tung chung , kap shui mun and tsing ma bridges is eight metres , $number metres and $number metres respectively .
the boundaries of the restricted area are specified in $number schedule to the shipping and port control regulations .
the penalty for entering or passing underneath the height restricted areas or bridges is a fine of $ $number and imprisonment for six months .
for a vessel involved in a collision with any of the bridges , the person - in - charge of the vessel will be liable to a fine of $ $number and imprisonment of six months .
a programme of education and enforcement of the height restrictions of the bridges in particular the tsing ma and kap shui mun bridges has been developed by the marine department .
an educational seminar for owners and operators of derrick barges with a boom length exceeding $number metres was conducted on $date to advise them to lower their booms when passing underneath the kap shui mun bridge .
the marine department 's harbour patrol section launches mounted an educational campaign from $date to $number .
another campaign is being conducted from today to $date .
barges with topped up derricks will be directed to suitable locations or anchorages for inspection with a view to ascertaining the height of their highest points above the waterlines .
any vessel with its highest point exceeding the height limit while navigating within the height restricted area is liable to prosecution .
the marine department issued marine department notices no. $number and no. $number of $number on $date and $date respectively to announce the height restrictions on the tsing ma , kap shui mun and tung chung bridges .
inspections to non - industrial establishments stepped up to coincide with the local economic transformation from a manufacturing base to a commercial centre , labour inspectors of the labour department have stepped up the inspection of non - industrial establishments .
this is in addition to their traditional efforts of inspecting industrial undertakings to ensure compliance by employers as well as rights and benefits of employees .
a spokesman for the labour department said today ( monday ) : " labour inspectors are empowered by law to inspect all places of employment and enforce various labour laws . "
" they are entrusted with the responsibilities to ensure that employees receive their wages and statutory benefits , to check insurance policies for employees ' compensation , and to monitor various labour importation schemes .
" labour inspectors will also check records and identity documents of employees to clamp down illegal employment , " the spokesman added .
members of the public who have any doubts about a labour inspector 's identity and authority can contact the labour inspection division of the labour department during office hours at $number $number for clarification .
flushing water cut in tsuen wan and kwai chung flushing water supply to all premises in tsuen wan and kwai chung will be suspended between $number am and $number pm on $date ( thursday ) for alteration work on watermains .
the suspension will also affect upper kwai chung , lower kwai chung and kwai chung container terminal .
water storage figure storage in hong kong 's reservoirs at $number am today ( monday ) stood at $number per cent of capacity or $number cubic metres .
this time last year the reservoirs contained $number cubic metres of water , representing $number per cent of capacity .
announced the executive council approved today ( tuesday ) the manner in which the government of the hong kong special administrative region should deal with land leases and related matters in exercise of its authority under articles $number and $number of the basic law .
announcing the details at a press conference , the secretary for planning , environment and lands , mr bowen leung , said the arrangements had been worked out under the basic guiding principles of continuity , simplicity and certainty .
" clarity , consistency and certainty in the land lease terms are essential for the effective functioning of the property sector , especially in regard to undertaking property development and investment , " said mr leung .
mr leung explained that the new land policy is basically the same as those prevailing before $date , except for changes that were justified under present circumstances .
he said that the arrangements can be grouped into four categories , namely , new leases , modification of lease conditions , extension of non - renewable leases , and extension of special purpose leases .
the details are : new leases will be granted (a) at a term of $number years from the date of grant at a premium ; and (b) subject to payment from the date of the land grant of an annual rent equivalent to $number of the rateable value of the property at that date , adjusted in step with any changes in the rateable value thereafter .
the exceptions to this arrangement are special purpose leases for recreational purposes and petrol filling stations will be for $number instead of $number years ; special purpose leases covered by franchises or operating licences will normally be the same as those of the franchises or licences ; and short term tenancies are normally for periods of not more than seven years .
" the charging of the annual rent follows the past arrangements , for consistency in the treatment of leases .
mr leung added that the exemptions from the liability to pay government rent in respect of certain rural holdings could continue .
modifications of the conditions specified in leases will be granted at a premium equivalent to the difference between the value of the land under the previous conditions and its value under the modified conditions .
in modification cases which do not involve any realignment of the boundaries of the lot ( s ) covered by the lease concerned and are conducted by a modification letter , all the conditions previously applicable to the lease , including the lease term and the rent , will remain unchanged , with the exception of the conditions being modified .
in all other modification cases conducted by surrender / regrant , the new term will be $number years from the date of regrant . an annual government rent of $number of the rateable value will be charged from the date of regrant to be adjusted in step with changes in the rateable value .
non - renewable leases will , upon expiry and at the government 's sole discretion , be extended for a term of $number years without payment of an additional premium . however , an annual government rent of $number of the rateable value will be charged from the date of extension to be adjusted in step with changes in the rateable value .
" it is also important to emphasise that the lessees do not have an automatic right of renewal of their non - renewable leases .
such extension of non - renewable leases will be at the government 's sole discretion , i.e. the government may , if circumstances require in the public interest , decide not to extend certain leases . "
" we expect however that most of the non - renewal leases will be renewed , " mr leung said .
special purpose leases will , upon expiry and at the government 's sole discretion , be extended for a term of $number years , without payment of a premium , but an annual government rent of $number of the rateable value will be charged from the date of extension to be adjusted in accordance with the rateable value .
the exceptions to this are (a) leases for recreational purposes may not be extended for a term exceeding $number years ; (b) leases for petrol filling stations may not be extended .
new leases for a term of not $number years may , however , be granted to the existing owner on payment of a premium ; (c) leases covered by franchises or operating licences should normally be extended for a term to be the same as that of the franchises or licences ; and (d) leases for kerosene stores may not be extended .
however , short term tenancies at full market rental may be offered to the existing owner for an initial term of three years .
these arrangements follow the past arrangements except for the lease term .
mr leung also announced a five - year land disposal programme which he said was targetted towards the chief executive 's objective of producing around $number flats per annum from both the private and public sector .
he said that part of the programme was aimed at making available sites to increase the supply of low density larger units to meet the demand in that sector and to help hong kong maintain its place as a business centre and attract investments .
in the five - year land sales programme , land would be disposed of to produce around $number flats of which around $number would be aimed at the low density larger units residential market , and $number flats would be for private sector participation scheme .
" the government is determined to deliver the housing production programme , " mr leung said .
tac discussed fare increase proposals of mtrc and kcrc the tac was briefed today ( tuesday ) by the two railway corporations on their $number fare increase proposals , and made a number of suggestions on the fare revision exercise and the introduction of contactless smart cards .
speaking after the special briefing , the tac chairman , dr cheng hon - kwan , said : " after examining the two railway corporations ' financial position and future plans , the tac considers their proposals for $number , which are below the forecast accumulated inflation of $number , reasonable and acceptable . "
the overall fare increases of mtr and kcr services for $number are $number per cent and $number per cent respectively of its $ $number of profits including the $ $number from property development $date , kcrc has spent , or earmarked , most of this sum on a comprehensive capital and improvement projects to enhance its capacity and improve its service .
despite a substantial outstanding loan of $ $number , the mtrc continues to invest heavily in several new railway projects and to undertake capital improvement measures .
$date alone , mtrc 's capital expenditure amounted to $ $number .
in addition to the new railway projects under planning , the kcrc and mtrc are committed to a number of capital improvement projects over the next years - refurbishment and capacity expansion of existing mtr stations , modernisation of the existing mtr rolling stock fleet , the installation of platform screen doors in mtr stations , new signalling system , modernisation of east rail trains ; hung hom station renovation ; additional light rail vehicles ; light rail platform improvements and noise reduction barriers along east rail .
" however , members and i expressed concern about the conditions attached to the introduction of smart card , the octopus , which will gradually replace the existing common stored value ticket and light rail passes , " said dr cheng .
" we consider that the two corporations should retain all the concessions of the existing common stored value tickets and the light rail passes in the new octopus fares , such as lower smart card fares and a bonus for frequent travellers , etc. "
dr cheng added : " we also request the two railway corporations to provide more incentives to encourage passengers switching to the new technological product . "
at the request of the tac , the kcrc has agreed to consider the following : a . waiving part of the $ $number deposit for a smart card and the extra $ $number deposit for a personalised card ; b . extending the phasing - out period of the existing light rail multi - ride passes , i.e. these passes will remain in use for a longer period .
the tac also requested the mtrc to give further thought to waiving the smart card deposit .
the mtrc undertook to consider this seriously and liaise with other public transport operators introducing the use of smart card in $date .
the tac also expressed some concern about some proposed sectional fares such as , from hung hom to tai wai / sha tin and from hung hom to fanling / sheung shui .
" i hope the corporation will reconsider these sectional fares in the light of the previous fare increase , " said dr cheng .
grant of a new franchise to kmb the chief executive in council today ( tuesday ) approved the terms of a new franchise for kowloon motor bus company ( $number ) limited (kmb) which would confer upon the company the right to operate a public bus service on $number routes for the period $date .
" having reviewed the performance of kmb , we are fully satisfied that kmb has been providing a proper and efficient bus service , " a government spokesman said .
" considering that a longer franchise will enable the company to plan ahead and to secure the financial support of the banking sector of its investment , the chief executive in council has approved the grant of a new $number - year franchise to kmb . "
similar to other existing bus franchises , the new franchise will not be subject to any profit control scheme . to pave the way for increased competition in the public bus services market , kmb 's bus routes will be specified as non - exclusive routes , as in the case of bus routes operated by other franchised bus companies .
the spokesman pointed out that a number of new provisions were incorporated into the new franchise .
" the mid - term review is to be conducted after $number year of the new franchise .
based on the results of such a review , the chief executive in council may , if the need arises , and with the consent of kmb , amend the terms of the franchise , " he said .
the executive council also noted kmb 's proposal to transfer , after the commencement of its new franchise , the ownership of its permanent depot site at lai chi kok to its wholly - owned subsidiary company .
following the transfer , the subsidiary company will lease the site back for kmb 's operations until a replacement depot on the west kowloon reclamation is ready for use .
the west kowloon reclamation site will be provided to kmb on the basis of a short term tenancy agreement .
at present , kmb has a fleet of $number buses . its operations are supported by eight short term tenancy sites and eight permanent sites .
six of the permanent sites , including the lai chi kok site , were acquired by kmb on the open market previously using shareholders ' funds .
" the administration will give kmb permission to transfer the lai chi kok site to its wholly own subsidiary on condition that for so long as the lai chi kok site is necessary for kmb 's operations , the site will continue to be made available to kmb at no additional cost to commuters , " the spokesman said .
the administration will therefore impose conditions on the transfer of the site , including a requirement for kmb 's subsidiary company to charge a nominal rent as opposed to a market rent for its use ; and restrictions on further disposal of the lai chi kok depot by this subsidiary company .
kmb 's shareholders will pay for the cost of constructing a modern depot on the west kowloon reclamation to replace the lai chi kok depot .
once this replacement depot is ready for use , the lai chi kok site may be released from kmb 's franchised operations .
on the impact on passengers , the spokesman said , " kmb 's shareholders will bear all the costs arising from the transfer , the construction and the use of the replacement depot to cope with its modern fleet of $number metre buses .
" the eventual relocation of the lai chi kok depot will also go a long way towards rectifying the environmental nuisance caused by the depot to nearby residents .
" from a land use point of view , as the site has been rezoned as a comprehensive development area , its release from kmb 's franchised operations would also ensure a better and more efficient use of land . "
hksar to be represented at hohhot celebrations the secretary for justice , miss elsie leung , will join a delegation of the central people 's government to attend the ceremony and activities in celebration of the $number anniversary of the inner mongolia autonomous region . she will be attending as representative of the hong kong special administrative region .
miss leung will leave on thursday ( $date ) to join the delegation in beijing , and return on monday ( $date ) .
during her absence , the law officer ( civil law ) , mr ian wingfield , will act as secretary for justice .
tuition fees for ugc - funded institutions the government today ( tuesday ) announced that the tuition fees for degree and sub - degree courses at university grants committee (ugc) - funded institutions for the $number academic year .
since the promulgation of the partial cost recovery policy $date , the government has been aiming at achieving $number per cent cost recovery $date $number in accordance with a phased plan endorsed by the previous executive council $date .
" it is government 's target to achieve $number per cent cost recovery $date $number .
we believe that the $number per cent cost recovery target is a modest share as the government 's subsidy amounts to a significant $number per cent .
this represents a reasonable balance between students and the community in sharing the costs of tertiary education , especially when non - cash limited financial assistance is available under the local student finance scheme (lsfs) , " the spokesman said .
" at the levels of $ $number for degree courses and $ $number for sub - degree courses in the forth - coming academic year , we will achieve the target as scheduled , " he added .
" as student unit costs will be reduced in real terms over the next triennium , it is expected that the increase in tuition fee will be kept below inflation , " he added .
" we are committed to the development of teacher training in a bid to enhance the quality of basic education .
in the foreseeable future , we will require all new teachers for primary and secondary schools to have a university degree and teachers ' training .
these proposals will have far - reaching repercussions on the future development and directions of hkied .
we will consider how best to achieve these objectives and review the tuition fee policy for the hkied in the light of these developments .
" meanwhile , the tuition fees for pre - service certificate in education will increase in line with recent trends .
the actual tuition fee level for $number academic year will be $ $number , which is $ $number lower than the indicative level of $ $number . this level represents a $number per cent increase over $number , which is in line with the trend of increase $date .
" at this fee level , approximately $number of the cost will be recovered .
the level was set having regard to the institute 's relatively low starting fee inherited from the colleges of education and the undesirable effect of a sharp fee increase in teacher education , " the spokesman explained .
student finance - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - to ensure that no qualified student will be denied access to tertiary education because of a lack of means , the government operates the lsfs to provide full - time eligible students at specified tertiary institutions ( including all ugc - funded institutions ) with means - tested grants and / or loans .
in the $number academic year , government disbursed to $number students , or $number per cent of the entire student population a total of $ $number in grant and $ $number in loan , which are $number times and seven times over their respective amounts $date $number .
" while tertiary tuition fees have risen , so has the level of financial assistance provided by the government to help students meet their tuition fee payment and the costs of living , " the spokesman stressed .
the maximum grant is set at a level to cover tuition fees , academic expenses and compulsory student union fees .
loans are intended to assist the students in meeting their living and personal expenses .
" to enable more needy students to benefit from the lsfs , the administration is considering various major improvement measures to the scheme recommended recently by the joint committee on student finance .
these measures are intended to enhance the scheme 's efficiency and cost - effectiveness .
meanwhile , a number of improvements have recently been made to the existing scheme , " the spokesman said .
" to provide an alternative channel of financial assistance to tertiary students , we are actively considering the proposal to introduce a non - means - tested loan scheme .
the proposal , if endorsed , will provide speedy financial assistance to students , " the spokesman added .
hongkong post launches new performance pledges " our new performance pledges reflect our determination to provide quality services to our customers , " the postmaster general , mr robert footman , said today ( tuesday ) at a press briefing .
" the pledges have three important 'firsts ' : the results of our $number independent survey of customer views on our services , our $number customer service pledge , and our achievement for $number time of our pledge to deliver $number per cent of local letters on the day after collection . "
$number customer perception survey : $number per cent of respondents from the general public , $number per cent from the business sector and $number per cent from the philately sector were satisfied or extremely satisfied with hongkong post 's services .
$number customer service pledge formalises hongkong post 's commitment to fulfill needs and exceed expectations , with professional and caring services which are on time , reliable , convenient and outstanding value for money .
$number achievement of $number per cent next day delivery of local letters assures customers that hongkong post will review its working processes and procedures to achieve the highest quality of service possible .
mr footman said : " these results demonstrate that $number was a good year for hongkong post . but they also provide further impetus to our efforts to improve our services .
" we have developed plans to improve in areas identified by customers in the survey , especially waiting time , customer friendliness and availability of philatelic products .
" we have already implemented some new initiatives , including advance order schemes and selling new stamps on sundays or public holidays , to improve availability of philatelic products and to reduce waiting times at the counters .
" we are planning training for all staff on customer service , based on our customer service pledge . "
mr footman added that hongkong post was pressing ahead with new and improved performance pledges and services , including a freeze on postage rates until $date next year , extended discounts for bulk postings and a new bulk economy service .
details of the performance pledges and the $number projects for better services are as follows : specfic pledges - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - in overall terms , $number was a very good year .
for $number time , hongkong post achieved $number per cent next day delivery of local letters regularly , particularly in $number half of the year when improvement measures in handling processes took effect . but the performance in despatching outward air parcels and outward speedpost items as well as the preparation of philatelic products for local advance order service and the despatch of overseas philatelic orders fell slightly below the pledges .
hongkong post is committed to continuously improving its pledges .
two new pledges - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - * to process applications for the household circular service within three working days ( $number per cent ) ; * to process applications for the redirection service within five working days ( $number per cent ) .
two pledges for new services - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - * to deliver bulk economy letters within three working days ( $number per cent ) ; * to make available products ordered under the local standing order service from $number working day after the issue of the product ( $number per cent ) . $number projects for better services - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - hongkong post is committed to implement specific new projects to improve services .
in $date , $number projects for better services were announced . $number of these were completed by $date , $number are ongoing , and three were delayed .
later this year hongkong post will publish a further $number projects for better services .
quarterly business receipts indices for service industries business receipts in most service industries showed year - on - year increases of various magnitudes in value terms in $number quarter of $number .
comparing $number quarter of $number with the same quarter a year earlier , the value of business receipts in the real estate industry registered the fastest growth , by $number .
this was followed by those in the financing ( except banking ) and the communications industries , which grew by $number and $number respectively .
these are the provisional figures on the new $number - based business receipts indices for service industries released today ( tuesday ) by the census and statistics department .
in support of government 's initiative in service promotion , the census and statistics department ( c & sd ) compiles and publishes more detailed business receipts indices starting from the reference quarter of $number quarter of $number .
in addition to the existing indices for twelve service industries , eleven more indices covering two additional industries , two service domains and providing more detailed breakdowns for some of the existing industries are compiled .
they are all $number - based . the existing series of $number - based business receipts indices for twelve industries have also been rebased to $number .
the nine newly compiled industry - based indices relate to wholesale / retail , air transport , land transport , maritime transport , telecommunications , financial markets and fund management , real estate , professional services and film entertainment .
the two new service domains are tourism , convention and exhibition services and computer and information services .
the strong growth in business receipts in the real estate industry in $number quarter of $number was attributable to the buoyancy in the property market .
the significant increase in business receipts in the financing ( except banking ) industry was due to markedly higher stock market turnover and strong performance of the capital market .
within the financing ( except banking ) industry , the financial market and fund management sector recorded robust growth of $number in business receipts .
the surge in business receipts in the communications industry was attributable to the rapid expansion of the telecommunications industry .
along with the significant increase in the number of customers demanding public mobile radiotelephone services , business receipts of the telecommunications industry went up by $number .
meanwhile , considerable increases in business receipts were also registered in the film entertainment ( $number ) , business services ( $number ) and transport ( $number ) industries .
as regards the storage industry , business receipts decreased slightly , by $number in value terms .
this was likely to be affected by the recent slow down in growth of import and export trading activities .
as for the tourism , convention and exhibition services domain and computer and related services domain , business receipts recorded year - on - year increases of $number and $number respectively .
compared with $number quarter of $number , and bearing in mind that this comparison might be affected by seasonal factors , decreases in business receipts were recorded in most service industries .
a major source of data used for compiling the business receipts indices is a quarterly survey of service industries (qssi) launched by the census and statistics department $date .
regarding the tourism , convention and exhibition services domain , part of the data is obtained from the hong kong tourist association .
a service domain differs from a service industry in that a domain comprises those parts of economic activities straddling different industries but somehow related to a common purpose .
it may include all activities carried out by all establishments in a service industry that is closely related to the domain .
in some other cases , however , only a portion of the establishments in an industry or even only part of the establishments ' activities are related to the domain .
tourism is a good example .
it includes all activities of travel agents ; and some ( those involving visitors as customers ) but not all of the activities of restaurants , retailers and transport operators .
details on the compilation method of the business receipts indices are given in the report " quarterly business receipts indices for service industries , $number quarter $number " , which is now on sale at $ $number per copy at the government publications centre of the information services department , queensway government offices , low block , ground floor , $number queensway , hong kong .
it can also be purchased from the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
an approximation method for converting the twelve existing $number - based series of business receipts indices to $number - based to facilitate trendal analyses is also explained in the report .
enquiries about the survey results may be directed to the business services statistics section of the census and statistics department at tel : $number $number .
rates and government rent for the $date quarter a spokesman for the rating and valuation department said today ( tuesday ) that in accordance with the rating ordinance ( chapter $number ) and the government rent ( assessment and collection ) ordinance ( chapter $number ) , rates and / or government rent for $number quarter $number are payable on or before $date .
the spokesman said that if payers have not received demand notes for rates and / or government rent for $number quarter $number , they may bring along relevant demand notes for any previous quarter to any of the treasury collection offices listed at (a) to (f) above , where replacement demand notes may be obtained and payment can be made .
if there is no relevant demand note for any previous quarter , payers may make enquiry by telephone $number $number , by fax $number $number or in person at the accounting and billing division of the rating and valuation department , hennessy centre , $number floor , $number hennessy road , causeway bay , hong kong .
non - receipt of the demand note does not alter the requirement that the rates and / or government rent must be paid on or before $date and unless so paid , the amount payable may be subject to a surcharge of $number under the provisions of the two ordinances . a further surcharge of $number per cent may be levied on the outstanding amount ( including the $number surcharge ) which remains unpaid six months after the due date .
payers who recently submitted a valid direct debit authorisation should note that payment should still be made by other means as stipulated in the demand note unless the wording " payment to be made by autopay " is shown on the demand note .
if payers currently pay rates by autopay , their original direct debit authorisation will also apply to the payment of government rent for the combined demand on the same property .
they should adjust the authorised limit for direct debit , if necessary , to ensure that there are sufficient funds in their bank accounts to meet these payments on the due date .
to avoid the possible inconvenience of queuing , payers are urged to settle payment using autopay under which payers ' bank accounts will only be debited on the due dates or using the payment by phone service (pps) .
application forms for autopay are obtainable from treasury collection offices , district offices and all major banks in hong kong or by telephoning $number $number .
for additional information regarding pps , please call $number $number $number .
construction site safety campaign to be launched the labour department will launch a special safety campaign tomorrow ( wednesday ) to inspect construction sites in the territory , especially those with poor safety records .
chief factory inspector ( operations ) of the labour department , mr tse ming - sing , said today ( tuesday ) that the campaign , which will last until the end of $date , is aimed at reducing construction site accidents and reminding management and workers of the importance of site safety .
" from our experience , launching a special safety campaign in addition to day - to - day inspections before the advent of the rainy season is effective in improving site safety performance , " mr tse said .
" where necessary , suspension notices and improvement notices will be issued to contractors requiring them to take remedial action to render their work site safe .
" unscrupulous contractors and workers who choose to ignore construction site safety will be prosecuted without warning , " he warned .
a total of $number special task force teams , each comprising two factory inspectors , have been assigned for carrying out the inspection .
the teams will be paying particular attention to high risk activities such as working at height , in confined space or with lifting appliances and lifting gear .
safety in the use of electricity and housekeeping at construction sites will also be checked .
they will also visit construction sites engaged in lift or escalator maintenance work with a view to enhancing safety conditions on these sites .
multi - media computers provided to primary schools the finance committee has approved funds for providing multi - media computers to all government and aided primary schools to improve the quality of education . the objective of the provision is to promote computer awareness among students and to enable teachers to use computer assisted learning (cal) packages for enhancing teaching and learning in primary school .
in each school site , a total of $number sets of multi - media computers , each bundled with eight software packages will be provided , together with subsidies for site preparation and purchase of necessary furniture and electrical appliances .
recurrent grant for the purchase of cal packages and consumable items will be provided to school starting $number .
the education department has suggested three modes of operation for the implementation of the project to suit the physical setting and curriculum need of individual primary school .
a school will install $number desktop computers in a computer classroom or in several classrooms , or may choose $number notebook computers to be brought into the classrooms .
in each school site , two computers with internet access facilities will be installed in the staff room or the school library for teachers and students .
each school may nominate not less than $number teachers to attend teacher training courses .
the project is expected to be completed by the end of $number . further details of the project will be announced this $date .
air quality report for $date released the environmental protection department today ( tuesday ) released air quality information for $date .
all measurements in the month complied with air quality objective values .
the heavy rainfall in $date helped to keep the air pollution at low levels by washing away the air pollutants .
the report includes the monitoring results from mong kok , central / western and kwai chung , which represent three important land use types in the territory : * locations close to road traffic in built - up urban areas ; * combined commercial and residential districts ; and * districts close to industrial areas .
the mong kok station was shut down in $number half of the month for modification work .
air pollutants reported included sulphur dioxide , nitrogen dioxide , total suspended particulates , and the respirable suspended particulates .
all these pollutants can affect respiratory health in sufficient concentration .
air pollution originated from various sources , including combustion , industrial and construction processes .
in terms of impact on local air quality , motor vehicle exhaust is the most important source of nitrogen dioxide and airborne particulate matter , especially the smaller respirable particles .
visa requirements to visit hksar the immigration department published today ( tuesday ) a list of visa - exempted countries for the general public 's reference and reiterated that it will continue to adopt a liberal visa policy on the entry of foreign visitors .
under the liberal visa policy , people from $number countries and territories may visit the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) without visas and stay for seven days to six months .
only people from $number countries need to apply for visas to visit the hksar .
this is similar to the arrangements before .
for the general public 's reference , the immigration department has published two lists , one on visa - exempted countries and territories and the other on countries and territories which require visas for a visit to the hksar .
people from countries which are the hksar 's major trading or investment partners or major sources of visitors can all continue to benefit from the visa exemption arrangements .
these countries include japan , usa , canada , united kingdom , australia , new zealand , thailand , south korea , philippines , singapore , germany and france .
" this liberal visa policy is beneficial to the further development of bilateral trade , investment and tourism .
we will continue to review our visa policy on an on - going basis , taking into account the overall interest of the hksar and the strength of our ties with specific countries and territories , " a spokesman for the department said .
information on the visa requirements may be obtained from the department 's homepage at http://www.info.gov.hk/immd/ .
fresh water cut in mong kok fresh water supply to some premises in mong kok will be suspended from $number pm on $date ( friday ) to $number am the following day for waste detection work on watermains .
the suspension will affect all premises in the area bounded by tong mei road , mong kok road , shanghai street , lai chi kok road and prince edward road west .
number of applications for sar passports following is a question by the hon howard young and a reply by the acting secretary for security , mrs carrie yau , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : will the government inform this council of the approximate number of applications for the hong kong special administrative region passports which have been received up to the end of $number week for receiving such applications and , out of these applications , the estimated number of such applications which have been identified as having been made by persons who have no other valid travel documents and / or whose travel documents will expire within $number months ?
reply : mrs president , immigration department started accepting applications for hong kong special administrative region passports submitted by post since $date .
in $number week ( $date ) the department received a total of $number applications .
by $date , the total number of applications received by the immigration department was $number .
of the $number applications which had been assessed , $number applications ( that is , $number ) were determined as having been submitted by persons who claimed to have no travel documents or whose travel documents would expire within $number months .
guest list for sarg establishment reception following is a question by the hon chu yu - lin , david , and a written reply by the secretary for home affairs , mr michael suen , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : will the government inform this council : (a) which government department was responsible for compiling the guest list for the reception celebrating the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region on $date ; and (b) whether all members of the three - tier system of assembly of the last term before the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region had been invited ; if not , what criteria were adopted when deciding on the list of guests to be invited ?
reply : (a) the guest list for the cocktail reception celebrating the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region (sar) on $date was compiled by the special administrative region chief executive 's office .
(b) as the reception was to be held after the establishment of the sar , the sar chief executive 's office had invited members of the three - tier councils basing on the membership lists of the three - tier provisional councils after the establishment of the sar .
all members of the three - tier provisional councils were invited to the reception .
other guests , including members of the three - tier councils before the establishment of the sar , were invited having regard , inter alia , to the other public offices that they were holding .
govt committed to holding fast to economic philosophy : fs the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , said today ( thursday ) that the underlying concepts of 'minimum intervention , maximum support ' , which was a long standing principle for the government , was neither an empty slogan nor an excuse for 'doing nothing ' .
instead , the government was committed , in this time of change , to holding fast to the philosophy of a free economy which had proved to be successful , with a view to enhancing hong kong 's competitiveness in asia - pacific as well as in the whole world .
speaking at a luncheon of the rotary club of hong kong northwest , mr tsang said in order to implement the 'minimum intervention , maximum support ' concept , the government had set up the business and services promotion unit to promote the service industry and carry out the helping business programme .
he said : " we will launch a range of promotional and publicity activities to boost the international awareness of hong kong being a services centre par excellence and to enlighten the public on the transformation of hong kong into a service - oriented economy , so as to stimulate members of the business community to better prepare themselves for future challenges .
" in addition , the business and services promotion unit will closely liaise with the policy bureaux within the government and other supporting organisations for the services sector , such as the trade development council , the productivity council , the export and credit insurance corporation , etc. in order to ensure that the recommendations for services promotion have been put into practice . "
its four main areas of work included : * cutting red tape and eliminating over - regulation ; * reducing cost of compliance to business sector ; * identifying public services for transfer to the business sector ; and * introducing new services to help business .
he cited the latest progress of two major items under the programme to explain how the government was making a business - friendly environment .
he said : " since $date this year , we have put nearly $number most common public forms including a number of business related ones on the internet .
" public forms that might take a long travel to obtain in the past can now be readily accessible by a mere touch of the keyboard .
we will continue to put more forms on the internet for the public 's convenience .
" the business licence information centre , which is to be set up in $date this year , is another new initiative under the helping business programme . it will provide free information relating to government licences , permits , certificates and authorisations which are necessary for business operations . "
this government - run centre is directly under the industry department .
the computerised database of the centre will provide the most up - to - date and detailed information and forms relating to commercial licensing and regulations to save businessmen 's time and efforts .
mr tsang reiterated that the success hong kong now enjoyed depended on four crucial factors which were not going to change .
these four crucial factors which are not going to change include the legal system ; the free entrepreneurial spirit that hong kong upholds and a level playing field thus created ; the clean and efficient special administrative region (sar) civil service ; and the free flow of information .
mr tsang said this was also to say that the beliefs and systems that had engendered hong kong 's strong economy would keep growing .
" the sar government knows very well that hong kong is facing with strong competition from other asian - pacific countries - a challenge that must not be underestimated , " mr tsang said .
he told hong kong people to continue with their courageous spirit to tackle problems in maintaining the crucial factors which led to hong kong 's success , so that hong kong 's economy which was already an envy of the world could be further enhanced .
water quality of st stephen 's beach in response to a press release issued by the environmental protection department (epd) today ( thursday ) relating to the water quality of st. stephen 's beach , a spokesman for the drainage services department (dsd) said a likely cause for the high e. coli readings could be a treatment plant failure at tung tau , stanley .
" on $date ( monday ) , our staff detected disturbance to the treatment process at the plant , which is a small rotating biological filter sewage treatment plant , " the spokesman said .
" we immediately closed the plant and carried out the necessary cleaning and emergency repairs .
" the plant was put back into operation in two days while the biological treatment process took a few days to recover .
the plant is now discharging within the required effluent standards .
" it is apparent that disturbance to the treatment process was caused by some chemical waste and we are investigating the source of the waste together with epd , " the spokesman said .
photograph requirements for hksar passports " in order not to delay the process of their applications for hong kong special administrative region (hksar) passports , applicants should ensure that their photographs meet the specific requirements , " a spokesman for the immigration department said today ( thursday ) .
the newly introduced hksar passport is a high quality passport . it has included numerous security and anti - forgery features and meets international standard .
the applicant 's personal data including the photo image will be printed through a computerised process so that it will be extremely difficult to forge the passport .
the photograph provided will be used for photo - capturing and it should have a plain background in mid - range colours of blue , reddish brown , purple , green or pink . blue or reddish brown are the preferred colours .
photographs with white , yellow or black background are not acceptable .
" so far , the immigration department has received $number hksar passport applications .
among the applications processed , $number per cent were found to have unacceptable photographs and had to be returned to the applicants , " the spokesman said .
the spokesman reminded the applicants that a photograph may be damaged by being folded , stapled or attached to the application forms by metal clips . this will result in making the photograph unsuitable for photo - capturing .
for enquiries , the public may telephone $number $number or use faxline $number $number .
hk calls for enhanced commercial relations with the uk enhancing british - hong kong commercial relations will be the main priority of the hong kong economic and trade office in london , according to its newly appointed director - general , mr john c tsang .
speaking at the inaugural opening of the london office , mr tsang said that despite the change of sovereignty , the hong kong special administrative region is still actively seeking to build up bilateral commercial relations between britain and hong kong .
he also stressed that british companies would not be penalised ; hong kong would continue to operate its business on a level playing field .
mr tsang said that $number british firms were already operating in hong kong , placing the uk as the largest foreign investor in the non - manufacturing sector , with a total investment stock amounting to * 1 2 bn $date in sectors such as banking , securities , accountancy , insurance , legal services , consultancy and retailing .
" in the years ahead , we intend redoubling our efforts with the business community here . we would be seeking to enhance hong kong 's trading and commercial interests in london , promote hong kong as a reliable trading partner and a premier location for doing business and encourage more uk investments to come to hong kong . "
he said that there was every reason for british business to strengthen its ties with hong kong where the economy was growing $number per cent in real terms , with per capita gdp reaching some us $ $number per annum ; an unemployment rate at $number per cent ; fiscal reserves exceeding us $ 8 0 bn , while at the same time keeping a policy of low taxation of $number per cent salary tax and $number per cent corporate profits tax .
" we have achieved this level of success despite numerous predictions of doom and gloom in this past decade and a half since the signing of the joint declaration . some have even gone so far as to announce the collapse of the hong kong economy and a thorough breakdown of its social order . "
mr tsang said that while none of the dire forecasts had come true , it was unrealistic to say that hong kong would be free of worries .
" in the run - up to the handover , there have been denouncements of set backs in civil liberty and freedoms and controversies concerning the establishment of the provisional legislature .
we are well aware of these concerns and we are seeking to ensure that our society 's democratic aspirations are not curtailed and that we proceed to open and fair elections as soon as practicable . "
he said that of more immediate concern to the people of hong kong were livelihood issues , including housing , education and welfare for the elderly .
the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , he added , had begun to tackle these problems head on .
" hong kong does not expect the road ahead to be trouble free . there will be a few bumps along the way , but they are manageable .
we are a practical and hard working people . we have a solid supporting infrastructure . together with the fine british legacy of the common law , we are sitting on a well - cushioned platform which would carry us comfortably into the next century . "
bangladesh consul - general calls on ce the bangladesh consul - general , mr badiuzzaman khan , called on the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , today ( thursday ) and informed him of the bangladesh government 's decision to grant visa - free access to holders of hksar passports , bn ( o ) passports as well as hong kong certificates of identity .
an sar government spokesman welcomed the bangladesh government 's decision .
" this treatment reflects a vote of confidence in the sar passport and signifies the strong commitment of the bangladesh government to hong kong 's continued success , " he said .
" we continue to welcome bangladesh nationals to visit hong kong , " he added .
index of industrial production for $number quarter of $number the index of industrial production for $number quarter of $number decreased by $number over the same quarter $date , according to the results of a survey released today ( thursday ) by the census and statistics department .
analysed by industry group , output of the basic metals and fabricated metal products industry decreased by $number .
a decrease of $number was registered in the output of the industry group of electrical and electronic products , machinery , professional equipment and optical goods . within this group , the output of consumer electrical and electronic products decreased by $number , whereas the output of machinery , equipment , apparatus , parts and components decreased by $number .
decreases in output were also recorded in the paper products and printing industry ( $number ) , the wearing apparel ( except footwear ) industry ( $number ) and the textiles ( including knitting ) industry ( $number ) .
on the other hand , output of the chemical , rubber , plastic and non - metallic mineral products industry increased moderately , by $number .
output of the food , beverages and tobacco industry also registered an increase of $number .
compared with $number quarter of $number , the index of industrial production showed a marked decrease of $number . this decrease was , however , largely seasonal as $number quarter is usually a low season for manufacturing production due to the lunar new year holidays .
in other words , it measures the volume of local production after discounting the effect of price changes .
more detailed information can be obtained from the " quarterly index of industrial production , $number quarter $number " report , which is on sale at $ $number a copy at the government publications sales centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong , or at the census and statistics department publications unit , $number / f. , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries about the survey result may be directed to the general economic surveys section of the census and statistics department at telephone $number $number .
the following table shows the percentage changes in the indices of industrial production .
as from $number quarter of $number , the hong kong standard industrial classification (hsic) is used to form the industry groups and component industries .
indices of industrial production by industry group and selected component industry ( $number = $number ) industry group / index % change over selected component for industry $number qtr . $number qtr . $number qtr . $number $number $number $number . food , beverages and tobacco $number $number $number .
wearing apparel ( except footwear ) $number $number $number .
textiles ( including knitting ) $number $number $number .
paper products and printing $number $number $number .
chemical , rubber , plastic and non - metallic mineral products $number $number within which : plastic products ( $number ) ( $number ) ( $number ) $number .
basic metals and fabricated metal products $number $number within which : fabricated metal products ( except machinery and equipment ) ( $number ) ( $number ) ( $number ) $number .
electrical and electronic products , machinery , professional equipment and optical goods $number $number within which : consumer electrical and electronic products ( $number ) ( $number ) ( $number ) within which : machinery , equipment , apparatus , parts and components ( $number ) ( $number ) ( $number ) $number .
four selected component industries , which carry relatively large weights and are major components of their relevant industry groups , are also included in the above table .
for easy reading , the figures of these selected component industries are shown in brackets . $number .
as from $number quarter of $number , the hong kong standard industrial classification (hsic) is used to form the industry groups and selected component industries presented in the above table .
for the exact coverage of the industry groups and component industries in terms of hsic codes , please refer to the publication ' quarterly index of industrial production , $number quarter $number ' .
companies registry figures for $number six months of $number figures released by the acting registrar of companies , mr d. o. kitchell , today ( thursday ) indicated an increase of activity in most areas for $number six months of the calendar year $number compared with the same period of $number .
the companies registry figures showed that the total number of companies registered under the companies ordinance at the end of $date was $number , an increase of $number over the position at $date .
the number of new companies registered during $number six months of $number was $number , $number more than the corresponding period of $number .
the total number of overseas companies which had established a place of business in hong kong under part xi of the companies ordinance at the end of $date was $number , an increase of $number over the total number at the end of $date . the number of new overseas companies registered during $number six months of $number was $number , an increase of $number compared with $number six months of $number .
the number of charges on the assets of companies registered in $number six months of $number increased by $number $number compared with $number six months of $number ; and the amount secured by those charges increased by $number from $ $number to $ $number .
the number of certificates of satisfaction , issued when charges are repaid , amounted to $number in $number half year of $number , an increase of $number from the same period last year , while the amount of indebtedness released , showed a rise of $number to $ $number .
during the period a total of $number prospectuses , including $number in respect of mutual funds , were registered compared with $number prospectuses , including $number in respect of mutual funds , during the corresponding period $date .
the number of documents received for filing during $number six months of $number compared with that for the same period $date increased by $number $number and the number of searches made by the public during $number six months of $number compared with that for the same period $date increased by $number $number .
the total number of summonses issued by the registrar of companies against companies and their directors for breaches of the companies ordinance , mainly for late filing of documents in $number six months of $number was $number , compared with $number during the same period $date . $number convictions were obtained in the period compared with $number in the same period of $number and $number cases remain to be heard by the court ( $number in the same period of $number ) .
the total amount of fines imposed for convictions in $number half year of $number was $ $number , compared with $ $number in the corresponding period $date .
annual report on hong kong energy statistics on sale the census and statistics department has published the hong kong energy statistics annual report $number edition which describes the situation of energy supply and demand in hong kong .
the report contains comprehensive statistical information relating to different forms of energy , including oil products , coal products , electricity and gas .
it also includes an overall energy balance which summarizes the sources and uses of different forms of energy , and depicts their relationships in the energy transformation processes . regarding various oil products , statistics on list prices , storage capacity , tank stock , imports , re - exports , retained imports , average unit values of imports , and quantity of sales by type of user are presented in the report .
figures on imports , re - exports , retained imports and average unit values of imports of selected coal products are given .
for electricity and gas , the report shows figures on tariff charges , generating capacity , production and consumption by type of user .
annual figures for the years $number are provided with respect to most of these statistics .
in addition , quarterly figures for $number and $number are presented for selected items .
the report is now on sale at $ $number per copy . purchase of this report can be made at the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong . the report is also available for sale at the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
enquiries about the energy statistics published in the report can be made to the industrial production statistics section of the census and statistics department at $number $number .
workshop to heighten awareness of fire prevention members of the public , owners ' corporations and mutual aid committees in kowloon city are invited to take part in a building management workshop on fire safety to promote public awareness of fire prevention and proper maintenance of fire services installations in private buildings .
the workshop , organised by the kowloon city district office , will be held on $date ( friday ) from $number pm to $number pm at the district office conference room on $number floor , one harbourfront , $number tak fung street , hung hom .
a representative from the fire protection bureau of the fire services department will give talks on three major topics , namely " causation of fire and some notable fire cases in hong kong " , " fire prevention and fire escape " and " fire services installations and its maintenance " , and answer questions from the participants .
an instructional video on building management will also be screened during the workshop .
participation is free .
application forms are now available at kowloon city district office and its sub - offices . deadline for application is $date .
enquiries can be made on tel . $number $number or $number $number .
administrative guidelines on national security issued the special administrative region (sar) government has issued administrative guidelines on the application of the national security consideration by the commissioner of police in regulating public meetings and processions .
an sar government spokesman said today ( friday ) that the guidelines aim to assist the commissioner of police in applying the concept of national security in the context of the public order ordinance in accordance with the international covenant on civil and political rights (iccpr) as applied to hong kong and enshrined in the basic law .
" in line with the iccpr , the commissioner of police will invoke the national security ground only if he reasonably considers it necessary to do so , " he said .
the spokesman said that upon receipt of notification of a public meeting or procession under the relevant provisions in the public order ordinance , the commissioner of police ( or an officer not below the rank of senior assistant commissioner of police ) would only invoke the ground of " national security " if he reasonably considers it necessary to do so in order to safeguard the territorial integrity and the independence of the people 's republic of china .
in coming to his decision , the commissioner of police will take into consideration , among other things , whether or not the declared purpose of the notified public meeting or procession is to advocate separation from the people 's republic of china including advocacy of the independence of taiwan or tibet .
" this falls under consideration of 'national security ' because such advocacy might threaten the territorial integrity and independence of the people 's republic of china , " he explained .
but the spokesman emphasised that all relevant factors must be taken into account and that when deciding whether to take appropriate action on the ground of " national security " to regulate a public meeting or procession in progress , the police officer in charge may consider , among other things , * whether or not any act is likely to cause or lead to an imminent breach of the peace ; and * whether or not any person at the public meeting or procession is advocating separation from the people 's republic of china including advocacy of the independence of taiwan or tibet .
" the concept of what constitutes a breach of the peace is familiar to both front - line police officers and organisers of public meetings or processions . it is also found in other provisions of the public order ordinance , " he added .
the spokesman said in the case of the societies ordinance , the commissioner of police will need to consult the secretary for security if the commissioner reasonably believes that it is necessary in the interest of , among other things , national security to refuse or cancel the registration of a society .
" the application of the national security ground in the context of the societies ordinance will be considered on a case by case basis in view of the large number of societies formed from time to time , " he said .
" any person aggrieved by a decision of the commissioner of police will have the right to appeal in accordance with the relevant provisions in the public order ordinance and the societies ordinance , " the spokesman added .
quota for children eligible to have pr status in response to media enquiries about a newspaper report yesterday on the quota for children eligible to have permanent residency status under basic law (bl) article $number ( $number ) ( $number ) , an sar government spokesman said today ( friday ) : " in anticipation of the need to absorb into hong kong children eligible to gain permanent residency status under bl article $number ( $number ) ( $number ) , the government started to negotiate for specific quota in the one way permit system for such eligible children $date .
it started off with $number places which was subsequently increased to $number places $date . this specific quota has always been adhered to .
" prior to $number , there was no specific quota for such eligible children .
nevertheless , based on the average number of children entering hong kong prior to the introduction of the specific quota $date , we have been pressing for the continuation of the past allocation of $number places from the then prevailing overall quota of $number .
this is termed the non - specific quota .
actual arrival figures show that there are times when the non - specific quota falls behinds . "
the spokesman added that there are regular exchanges between the immigration department and the public security bureau on the administration of the quota so that adjustments can be made to enable the quotas be adhered to as closely as possible .
titles of principal officials in response to press enquiries , an sar government spokesman said today ( friday ) that concerns about the title of the chief secretary for administration are totally misplaced .
the spokesman said that mrs anson chan 's post title is " chief secretary for administration " at the rank of " administrative secretary " .
this arrangement is fully in line with the recommendation , made in $date , by the political sub - group of the preliminary working committee of the preparatory committee . it also takes fully into account the relevant basic law provisions .
furthermore , there is no inconsistency whatsoever with the reunification ordinance , the spokesman said .
the adoption of the title " chief secretary for administration " in english is to help to ensure that the role and responsibilities of the title holder within the government hierarchy will be well understood by the international community .
this is important to enable the title holder to represent hong kong effectively in overseas fora and meetings .
" it has absolutely nothing to do with mrs chan 's personal preference , " the spokesman said .
the change of the title from " chief secretary " to " chief secretary for administration " was given legal effect by way of the declaration of change of titles ( general adaptation ) notice $number , made under the interpretation and general clauses ordinance , cap . $number .
the notice came into operation on $date .
by virtue of this notice , all existing references to " chief secretary " in domestic legislation have been substituted by " chief secretary for administration " .
unemployment and underemployment statistics the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate for the period $date was $number , and the underemployment rate was $number , according to the latest labour force statistics released today ( friday ) by the census and statistics department .
for the period $date , both the provisional seasonally adjusted unemployment rate and the provisional underemployment rate were slightly lower , at $number and $number respectively .
commenting on these figures , a government secretariat spokesman said that the labour market tightened slightly further .
the decline in the unemployment rate was concentrated mainly in the construction , import / export trades , and restaurants and hotels sectors .
as to the underemployment rate , declines occurred also in the construction sector , and in the transport and manufacturing sectors .
the spokesman noted that overall labour demand remained robust amidst steady growth in the economy .
in the three months ending $date , total employment rose by $number over a year earlier , considerably faster than the growth of $number in total labour force .
during the period $date , the number of unemployed persons was estimated at $number , and the number of underemployed persons at $number .
the unemployment and underemployment statistics were obtained from a continuous general household survey .
the survey for $date covered a quarterly sample of some $number households or $number persons , selected scientifically to represent the land - based civilian non - institutional population in hong kong .
data were obtained from the survey by interviewing each member aged $number or over in the households sampled .
in the survey , the definitions used in measuring unemployment and underemployment follow closely those recommended by the international labour organisation .
being 'seasonally adjusted ' refers to the fact that unemployment rate has been adjusted for seasonal variations in the proportion of $number - time job - seekers in the labour force .
detailed analysis of labour force characteristics is given in the report on the general household survey which is published four times a year .
the next report covering the quarter ending $date will be on sale at the government publications centre at ground floor , low block , $number queensway , hong kong , by the end of $date .
payroll and wage statistics for $number quarter $number according to statistics released today ( friday ) by the census and statistics department , average labour earnings covering all major sectors surveyed , as measured by payroll per person engaged , recorded an increase of $number in nominal terms in $number quarter of $number over a year earlier .
after discounting changes in consumer prices , there was a notable increase of $number in real terms .
most of the major sectors surveyed continued to record an increase in average labour earnings , both in nominal terms and in real terms .
analysed by sector , the financing , insurance , real estate and business services sector recorded the fastest increase in average payroll per person engaged , by $number in nominal terms or $number in real terms in $number quarter of $number over a year earlier .
this was followed by the community , social and personal services sector , by $number in nominal terms or $number in real terms ; the wholesale , retail and import / export trades , restaurants and hotels sector , by $number in nominal terms or $number in real terms ; and the manufacturing sector , by $number in nominal terms or $number in real terms .
average labour earnings of the transport , storage and communications sector increased by $number in nominal terms , but were virtually unchanged in real terms .
the overall wage index covering selected major sectors showed a relatively less rapid increase than average labour earnings .
this index rose by $number in nominal terms in $date over a year earlier .
after discounting changes in consumer prices , the index showed a $number increase in real terms .
the relatively faster increase in earnings as compared to wages was due to the issue of irregular payments in some sectors probably for the more intensive work performed , which were covered in earnings but not in wages .
the wage indices for most of the major sectors , including manufacturing , wholesale , retail and import / export trades , restaurants and hotels , transport services , and financing , insurance , real estate and business services , showed increases of various magnitudes in real terms between $date and $date .
wage indices for the personal services sector however fell in real terms .
year - on - year changes in the indices of payroll per person engaged and wage indices for selected major sectors , in both nominal and real terms , are shown in table $number and table $number respectively .
statistics on average payroll per person engaged are compiled at quarterly intervals based on the results of the labour earnings survey conducted by the census and statistics department .
the wage indices are compiled from the same survey at half - yearly intervals for $date and $date of the year .
the wage indices cover both manual and non - manual workers up to the supervisory level .
average payroll includes wages as well as all other irregular receipts such as bonuses and overtime payments .
statistics on average payroll tend to show larger quarter - to - quarter changes , affected by the number of hours actually worked and the timing of payment of bonuses and back - pay .
detailed breakdowns of the above statistics are published in the " quarterly report of employment , vacancies and payroll statistics , $date " and the " half - yearly report of wage statistics , $date " .
they will be available shortly , at $ $number and $ $number per copy respectively , at the government publications centre , queensway government offices , low block , ground floor , $number queensway , hong kong and at the publications section of census and statistics department , $number floor , wan chai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
for enquires about statistics on average payroll per person engaged , please contact the census and statistics department at telephone number $number $number . for enquires on wage statistics , please call the department at $number $number .
applications for hcfcs free quota invited the environmental protection department (epd) today ( friday ) invites applications for free quotas to import $number types of hydrochlorofluorocarbons ( hcfcs ) for local consumption $date .
applications are open to all companies which have registered under the ozone layer protection ordinance . allocations will be made on a need basis .
the principal environmental protection officer , mr raymond leung , said : " according to the montreal protocol to protect the ozone layer , the hcfcs quotas for hong kong $date should be capped at $number tonnes .
" $number of the total available quotas for this year are allocated as free quotas in two phases .
" half of these were distributed in the phase i free quota allocation exercise in $date this year while the remaining ones will be allocated in this exercise . "
mr leung said this quota system had been introduced to fulfil hong kong 's international obligations under the protocol .
" hong kong 's consumption of hcfcs would be reduced in phases to zero by the year $number according to the schedule of the protocol , " he added .
applications for the phase ii free quotas should be submitted in person to epd 's air management group , $number floor , revenue tower , $number gloucester road , wan chai , hong kong by $number pm on $date .
application forms are available at the above address .
late applications will not be accepted .
for further details , please contact the air management group at $number $number or $number $number .
another $number services projects to be financed by government the services support fund vetting committee today ( friday ) approved another $number projects to be financed by the government 's services support fund (ssf) .
the ssf , which has a fund of $ $number , is set up by the government to provide financial support for projects which can contribute to the overall development and the competitiveness of the hong kong special administrative region 's service sectors . the fund is administered by the industry department .
since the setting up of the ssf , the department has twice invited applications for funding support .
in $number tranche of applications which was invited in late $number , a total of $number applications were received , and $number projects with a total project cost of $ $number were approved .
for $number tranche of applications invited between $date and $date , there were $number applications .
these were considered by the ssf vetting committee today . the vetting process was not easy because of the large number and diverse nature of the applications .
the main criterion adopted by the vetting committee was whether the application would contribute to the further development of the service sectors .
the $number approved applications cover a wide spectrum of service sectors , including computer and related services , insurance , import and export trade , wholesale and retail , tourism , catering and hospitality services , and professional services .
the applicants will be informed of the decision of the vetting committee shortly and funds will be disbursed as soon as possible to the successful applications .
board amends draft tin shui wai outline zoning plan the town planning board today ( friday ) announced several amendments to the draft tin shui wai outline zoning plan .
the amendments reflect the land use proposals for tin shui wai reserve zone which covers $number hectares of land in the northern part of the tin shui wai new town .
about seven hectares of land have been rezoned " residential ( group b ) $number " for medium - density residential developments with a maximum plot ratio of five .
two sites covering a total of $number hectares of land have been rezoned to " comprehensive development area " .
they are located in areas $number and $number and are reserved for comprehensive low - density residential development with maximum gross floor areas of $number and $number square metres respectively . the building height is restricted to a maximum of $number storeys over one storey of carport .
developments have to take into account the proposed wetland park nearby , the ecologically sensitive areas in the inner deep bay and the mai po nature reserve , as well as the traffic and infrastructural capacities of the surrounding areas .
about $number hectares of land have been rezoned to " conservation area " to conserve the existing natural characteristics and rural landscape at the fringe of the new town . they also serve to give added protection to the special landscape and ecological value of the inner deep bay area and the mai po nature reserve which are wetland of international importance and designated as sites listed under the ramsar convention .
another $number hectares of land have been rezoned to " green belt " to define the limit of the tin shui wai new town and to provide a separation from the rural areas in lau fau shan .
some $number hectares of land have been rezoned to " open space " for both active and passive recreational uses for the residents .
about $number hectares of land have been rezoned " government / institution / community " to serve the local residents and the wider district .
meanwhile , two hectares of land have been rezoned to " commercial " to complement the existing commercial developments in the town centre of the tin shui wai new town .
" other specified uses " have taken up $number hectares of land for developments , including telephone exchange , electric sub - station , sewage pumping station and light rail transit terminus .
a $number - hectare wetland park has been proposed under this zoning to provide a replacement habitat for the one lost from the engineering works in the reserve zone . it will also act as a buffer to minimize human disturbance to the two ramsar sites in the area .
the remaining area , $number hectares of land have been rezoned for drainage channels and roads .
the tin shui wai reserve zone will accommodate a population of $number while the existing population of the southern part of the tin shui wai new town is $number .
upon full development , the whole new town is estimated to have a population of $number with $number per cent in public housing including rental , home ownership scheme , and private sector participation scheme , and $number per cent in private housing .
s / tsw/2 ) is available for public inspection during office hours until $date at : * planning department $number floor , murray building garden road central hong kong ; * tuen mun and yuen long district planning office $number floor , metroplaza tower i $number hing fong road kwai chung new territories ; and * yuen long district office ground floor , yuen long district office building $number castle peak road yuen long new territories .
any person affected by the amendments may submit written objections to the secretary of the town planning board , c / o planning department , $number floor , murray building , garden road , central , hong kong , before $date .
copies of the draft plan are available for sale at the survey and mapping office , lands department , $number floor , murray building , garden road , hong kong and the kowloon map sales office , ground floor , $number nathan road , kowloon .
dsd invites tenders for sewerage works in stanley & shek o the drainage services department (dsd) is inviting tenders for two projects to build sewers and miscellaneous works for the sewerage and sewage disposal projects in stanley and shek o. $number contract involves mainly the construction of branch sewers to collect sewage from $number government and private properties in stanley and tai tam .
there will also be geotechnical and building works to improve the working environment in the cavern where the stanley sewage treatment works is situated .
the collected sewage will undergo secondary treatment at the stanley sewage treatment works before discharging into the sea .
" this will significantly improve the quality of the marine water in stanley area , " a spokesman for dsd said today ( friday ) .
works will start in $date for completion in $date .
another contract covers the construction of branch sewers to collect sewage from $number government and private properties in shek o , chung hom kok , repulse bay , middle bay , deep water bay and shouson hill areas .
the collected sewage from shek o area will be given preliminary treatment at the shek o sewage screening plant .
the sewage collected from chung hom kok area will be treated at stanley sewage treatment works , while that from other areas will be treated at aberdeen sewage treatment works , both for secondary treatment .
" the scheme aims to improve the existing sewerage system and to provide treatment and disposal facilities for shouson hill , deep water bay , repulse bay , chung hom kok , ma hang and rocky bay areas , " the spokesman said .
" the ultimate aim is to protect and improve the water quality of beaches on hong kong island south , " he added .
works will also start in $date and is expected to be completed by $date .
placement service continued for acp job seekers the labour department will continue to provide placement service to job seekers who wish to work in the new airport and related projects upon the closure of the airport core programme (acp) job centre in mid $date .
assistant commissioner for labour ( employment services ) , mrs jennie chor , said today ( friday ) that from next monday ( $date ) onwards , local construction workers who are interested in the airport - related jobs should register with the special placement team for acp of the labour department at $number floor , tsuen wan government offices , sai lau kok road , tsuen wan or any of the nine branch offices of the local employment service .
job seekers who have already registered with the acp job centre and agreed to transfer their record to the labour department will be automatically registered with the labour department .
the special placement team for acp will contact them when suitable acp vacancies are available .
" though eight of the $number acp projects have been substantially completed , construction works for the new airport and airport railway are still in progress , " mrs chor said .
" different types of workers such as electrician , plumber , metal worker , etc. are required for the timely completion of the remaining works , " she added .
interested local construction workers can call the department 's hotline $number $number for any enquiries .
new pedestrian subway at austin road proposed the highways department today ( friday ) proposes to construct a pedestrian subway at the junction of austin road with canton road in tsim sha tsui .
the project also comprises the construction of covered ramps and staircases at both sides of canton road and austin road , as well as related ancillary road , drainage and landscaping works .
upon its completion , the proposed subway will improve traffic flow and enhance pedestrian safety .
the work is scheduled to start in $date for completion in $number months .
a notice for the proposal was published in today 's gazette .
the plan and scheme of the proposed works can be seen at the following offices during office hours : * public enquiry service centre , central and western district office , ground floor , harbour building , $number pier road , central , hong kong ; * kowloon west district lands office , yau ma tei car park building , $number floor , $number shanghai street , kowloon ; and * public enquiry service centre , yau tsim mong district office , ground floor , mong kok government offices , $number luen wan street , kowloon .
any person objecting to the proposal must send his objection in writing to the secretary for transport on $number floor , east wing , central government offices , lower albert road , hong kong not later than $date .
nominations invited for outstanding disabled employees the labour department 's selective placement division (spd) is now inviting employers to nominate disabled employees for the outstanding disabled employees award (odea) $number .
" the odea , which is held annually , aims at giving formal recognition and appreciation to disabled employees with outstanding achievements in employment , " senior labour officer ( selective placement ) , mr siu lap - kei , said today ( saturday ) .
" we hope this event can help to promote public awareness of the working abilities of the disabled and hence to provide them with more employment opportunities .
" on the other hand , we hope it can provide an incentive for disabled employees to further improve their performance at work , " said mr siu .
the criteria for selection include the disabled employees ' overall performance , efforts and achievements in overcoming difficulties , diligence , devotion and accomplishment in employment .
all shortlisted nominees are required to attend an interview with a panel of judges .
" successful nominees will each be awarded a souvenir plaque and their nominators will receive a souvenir . they will also be invited to attend a souvenir presentation ceremony later this year , " he said .
deadline for nominations is $date .
re - nomination of candidates who were unsuccessful in previous attempts is welcomed .
interested parties can contact miss vivian lui of the publicity and promotion unit of spd at $number $number for more information and nominations .
water cut in yuen long fresh and flushing water supply to some premises in yuen long will be suspended from $number pm on $date ( tuesday ) to $number am the following day for waste detection work on watermains .
the suspension will affect all premises in the area between tai shu ha road east and tai shu ha road west between ma tong road and tai tong road including ma tin pak tsuen .
hk 's elements of success will not change : fs the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , today ( sunday ) said hong kong 's hard - working people had made the territory the world 's $number largest trading economy and the world 's $number largest exporter of services with the world 's $number highest foreign exchange reserves .
" we have a per - capita gdp which is higher than that in most developed nations .
we have been consistently rated the world 's freest economy .
i am sure these elements of our success will not change , " he said .
speaking at the opening ceremony of international association of convention and visitor bureaux annual convention (iacvb) , mr tsang said : " there may still be prophets of doom and gloom who predict hong kong 's star will fade .
" but i earnestly believe such predictions are ill - founded , over simplistic and fail to give due consideration to the determination of hong kong people to succeed and to seize the opportunities thrown up by new challenges and circumstances , to the determination of china to make the hong kong enterprise work . "
he recalled that during ceremonies to mark the handover and the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region , chinese leaders had stressed their determination to see hong kong continue to flourish and to take on an even more important role as ' china 's window on the world ' and 'the world 's window on china ' .
" president jiang , for example , restated our national policy that hong kong would enjoy a high degree of autonomy and that the ' one country , two systems ' concept would steadfastly chart our course towards long - term stability and prosperity , " mr tsang said .
president jiang also highlighted the importance of maintaining hong kong 's capitalist way of life separate from the socialist systems practised in the mainland .
the financial secretary said : " much of what president jiang said is already a reality , in front of your eyes .
" we are still one of the safest cities to visit in the world .
we have a corruption - free civil service .
we adhere strictly to the principles of a level playing field for all who do business in hong kong .
" our progressive financial and social systems are the same , our laws and legal system remain intact .
on behalf of the people and the government of the hong kong special administrative region , mr tsang extended a warm welcome to the $number delegates from $number countries attending the iacvb convention at the hong kong convention and exhibition centre .
he said : " the fact that you have chosen to hold your annual meeting here is i believe a vote of confidence in hong kong as an international tourism , convention and exhibition destination .
" your presence here shows that the convention business in hong kong continues as usual . "
in conclusion , mr tsang invited all participants to come back and visit hong kong again .
" come back next year , in five years or $number years . you will find hong kong 's star shining even bigger , brighter and better than before , " he added .
record fine for unauthorised building works the owner of a residential house in marina cove , sai kung , has recently been given a record high fine of $ $number for failing to comply with a statutory order to remove unauthorised building works without a reasonable excuse .
the quantum data systems ltd , registered owner of the house , was convicted by the kwun tong magistracy earlier this month and fined $ $number plus $ $number per day starting $date last year , when the deadline for removing the unauthorised works in the order expired .
the building authority issued a statutory order on $date after discovering illegal structures in the rear yard , front and rear flat roofs and main roof of the property . these illegal structures had a built - up area of $number square metres . the owner was given $number days to remove all the illegal structures .
the assistant director of buildings ( control and enforcement ) , mr leung shiu - hong , said today ( sunday ) that approval and consent from the building authority were required before building works should commence .
" property owners intending to carry out building works should appoint an authorised person and , where necessary , a registered structural engineer , to prepare plans for the consideration of the building authority in accordance with the provisions of the buildings ordinance , " mr leung said .
" any alterations or additions to buildings without the approval of the building authority are regarded as unauthorised building works and will have to be demolished , " he said .
" if the demolition works are not carried out by the due date , the buildings department may prosecute the offender , employ a government contractor to carry out the works , and recover the cost together with a supervision charge from the offender .
" if an owner fails to settle the costs , a certificate will be registered with the land registry against the title of the premises as a $number charge . an interest of $number per cent per annum will also be incurred .
the certificate will only be de - registered upon full settlement of all the charges , " mr leung said .
the maximum penalty for carrying out unauthorised building works is two years ' imprisonment , a principal fine of $ $number and a daily fine of $ $number .
the maximum penalty for failing to comply with a demolition order is one year 's imprisonment , a principal fine of $ $number and a daily fine of $ $number .
twelve consent applications approved in $number quarter the lands department issued a total of $number consents to the pre - sale of residential and non - residential units in uncompleted developments between $date and $date .
a spokesman for the lands department said today ( sunday ) that nine of these consents were for the pre - sale of $number residential units on hong kong island and in kowloon , sha tin , tai po , tuen mun and yuen long . the majority of the units are estimated to be completed before end of $date .
the other three applications were for the pre - sale of non - residential units on hong kong island and in tuen mun and sha tin .
" the government has so far issued two pre - sale consents which are subject to the additional anti - speculation measures announced by the secretary for housing on $date . they involve $number units , " the spokesman said .
the additional anti - speculation measures include the extension of pre - sale period to $number months and the offer for sale of all units in the development within six months of consent . the developer is also required to offer not less than $number per cent of the total units on each occasion of public sale .
at the end of last month , $number applications for pre - sale consent involving $number residential units and five applications in respect of non - residential developments were pending approval .
among these applications , four are private sector participation scheme projects ( involving $number units ) , one is the hong kong housing society 's flat - for - sale development ( $number units ) and one is the hong kong housing society 's sandwich class housing scheme development ( $number units ) .
the remaining eight developments totalling $number units are private developments subject to the series of anti - speculation measures introduced on $date , including six ( $number units ) which are subject to the additional anti - speculation measures announced last $date .
these developments are located in various parts of the territory .
meanwhile , since the introduction of the new measures for the pre - sale of residential units in $date , the department has given consent to a total of $number residential units .
during the same period , not subject to the new measures , five private sector participation scheme projects ( totalling $number units ) , four sandwich class housing developments ( $number units ) and four flat - for - sale scheme projects ( $number units ) , have been given pre - sale consent .
illegal use of water from fire service installations the water supplies department today ( sunday ) warned the public that it was illegal to use water from fire service installations for non - fire fighting purposes .
the warning was made in the face of an increasing number of people committing the offence .
" offenders will be prosecuted and are liable to a maximum fine of $ $number , " a spokesman for the department said .
the spokesman noted a number of recent court cases in which five people were found guilty of taking water from fire service installations for washing purposes .
" the offenders were fined between $ $number and $ $number , " he noted .
in addition , six contractors were fined between $ $number and $ $number for using water from street fire hydrants for construction purposes .
in view of the numerous construction activities going on , the spokesman also reminded construction companies and contractors to take safety precautionary measures and good care when carrying out construction works near government water mains to prevent them from damage .
several contractors in tsuen wan have carried out their works recklessly resulting in damage to government water mains .
" they were all convicted with a maximum fine of $ $number and were ordered to pay for the damages caused , " he said .
lotteries fund finances welfare programmes the lotteries fund has allocated about $ $number to finance various social welfare service programmes during $number quarter of $number , a social welfare department spokesman revealed today ( sunday ) .
" of the amount , $ $number are earmarked to elderly and medical social services , $ $number to rehabilitation , $ $number to welfare support services , $ $number to family and child welfare services , $ $number to youth services , $ $number to community development services and $ $number to services for offenders , " the spokesman said .
the fund was established for the purpose of financing , by way of a grant , loan or an advance , the operation or development of social welfare services and medical or educational projects with a welfare content .
salt water cut in sha tin salt water supply to some premises in sha tin will be suspended between $number am and $number pm on wednesday ( $date ) for watermains work .
the suspension will affect all premises in the sha tin town area ( including man lai road and man lam road ) , ma on shan and fo tan ( excluding scenery garden , oriental height garden , sui wo court and sui wo road ) .
fresh water cut in sai kung fresh water supply to some premises in sai kung will be suspended from $number pm on $date ( wednesday ) to $number am the following day for waste detection work on watermains .
the suspension will affect all premises along hong kin road including sai kung tui min hoi chuen , fisherman housing estate , tui min hoi , sai kung marine police station , sewage treatment works and tai wu court .
budget for setting up the government of the hksar the chief executive 's office ( ce 's office ) published today ( monday ) an updated account of the costs of setting up the government of the hong kong special administrative region ( government of the hksar ) .
the revised estimates are $ $number , as compared to the estimates of $ $number published in $date this year .
a detailed breakdown of the items of expenditure is in the annex , with explanations on the variations from the $date estimates .
" the bulk of the additional costs relate to activities to mark the inauguration of the government of the hksar ( estimated at $ $number ) , " a spokesman said .
out of the revised estimates of $ $number , about $ $number have been met from public funds , and $ $number are paid out of an advance from the central people 's government (cpg) .
the balance of $ $number relates to remuneration for members of the executive council ( exco ) and the provisional legislative council (plc) .
the revised estimates are prepared on the basis of the recommendations of the independent commission to examine the remuneration for exco and plc members announced last month .
payment will be made by the government of the hksar , following approval of the independent commission 's recommendations by the finance committee of the plc .
the finance committee will meet on wednesday ( $date ) to consider the remuneration for exco and plc members and the submission from the ce 's office for approval of funds to reimburse the cpg .
response to enquiries on traffic accident in response to press enquiries on a traffic accident today ( monday ) which involved a pla vehicle , an sar government spokesman said the following : " we confirm that a minor accident took place outside the cross harbour tunnel in kowloon involving a jeep of the pla hong kong garrison and a private car .
no one is injured .
" the accident was immediately reported to the police . an investigation is being carried out .
" the hksar government and the headquarters of the pla hong kong garrison have kept each other informed of the incident . "
response on search of vehicles in response to press enquiries about the power of the customs and excise department to search vehicles of the pla hong kong garrison , a spokesman from the security bureau said the following today ( monday ) : " under article $number of the garrison law , which has been promulgated in accordance with basic law article $number and applied to the hksar with effect from $date , members and vehicles of the garrison with documentary proof that they are in the course of official duties are exempt from examination , search or seizure by local law enforcement officers .
" anything outside the scope of this exemption are subject to hksar law .
for example , non - garrison cargoes or the personal belongings of garrison members are not covered by this provision .
" the pla hong kong garrison has maintained close liaison with the customs and excise department and other law enforcement agencies to ensure that nothing prohibited by hong kong laws is brought in or out .
" contrary to some press reports that the pla can pass through customs posts without any checks whatsoever , both sides have worked out procedures for the entry and exit of military personnel and vehicles to verify the identity of any military personnel and the bona fide of garrison vehicles at our border control points .
the cross border movements of military personnel and vehicles are captured in the computer systems of customs and excise department and the immigration department .
" customs and excise department will exercise their power to search vehicles if there are reasonable grounds to believe that an offence has been committed .
we are discussing with the garrison on how actions can be taken if members of the garrison are suspected of using military transport for illegal purposes . "
in reply to a question on whether local law enforcement agencies have ever searched british military vehicles before the handover , the spokesman said that as far as he is aware , such powers have never been exercised against the vehicles of the british forces .
preparations for world bank / imf annual meetings go smoothly preparations for the world bank group / international monetary fund (imf) annual meetings have entered the final phase , announces the hong kong monetary authority (hkma) today ( monday ) .
speaking at a press briefing today , mr james lau , executive director ( external department ) of hkma said : " between $date , $number , some $number participants will be attending the world bank group / imf annual meetings to be held in hong kong . "
he said that this prestigious event will enhance hong kong 's profile as a world - class international financial centre .
the annual meetings will attract $number finance ministers and central bank governors , together with around $number government officials from the $number member countries of the world bank group and imf .
this annual event is a convention of the international financial community to discuss issues facing world economies and the international monetary system .
in addition , it is expected that some $number private sector bankers and senior representatives from relevant interested organisations and $number local and international media representatives will be attending the annual meetings .
hkma has been entrusted with the complex task of co - ordinating the local organisation work for the annual meetings .
the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , chairs a steering committee to give policy guidance to the planning work while mr lau chairs an organising committee which is responsible for inter - departmental coordination and overseeing the planning work .
within hkma , the planning division is responsible for arranging venue facilities , communication system , hotel accommodation , transportation , security , airport reception , registration , social events , cultural programmes , etc.
" for instance , in conjunction with the transport department and the hong kong police force , we are working out traffic and transportation plans during the period of the annual meetings , " said mr lau .
as regards hotel accommodation for overseas participants , arrangements have been made with hotel management a couple of years ago to reserve some $number hotel rooms for the participants .
" drawing from the experience gained in the planning for the handover ceremony , we will keep on evaluating our preparation to ensure the smooth operation of the entire annual meetings , " mr stephen ng , head ( planning division , external department ) of hkma said at the press briefing .
turning to the meetings venue , mr lau said : " the hong kong convention and exhibition centre (hkcec) together with the new extension will provide a modern , well - equipped , as well as an efficient business - like working environment for all the delegates . "
to complement the meeting room facilities in the hkcec , $number temporary offices will be constructed in the hkcec for the delegates and for the staff of the world bank group and the imf and state - of - the - art convention facilities and other services will be provided , mr lau noted .
these facilities are provided according to the requirements of the world bank group and imf .
the annual meetings will officially commence on $date . senior chinese leaders and the chief executive of the hong kong special administrative region will speak at the opening ceremonies . other major meetings , such as the interim committee meeting and development committee meeting , will start in the week before .
it will be a very busy period during which many official and other meetings will be held . in addition , there will be a large number of informative business conferences and seminars during this period .
these seminars are organised by the world bank group , imf and private sector institutions to promote understanding and exchange of views on topical economic and financial issues .
also attending today 's press briefing are mr mak kwok - wah , acting deputy director of information services ( public relations ) , mr niels kraunsoe , chief executive of the hkcec and extension project , hong kong trade development council and mr cliff wallace , managing director of hkcec .
taxi written test waiting time to be improved waiting time for applicants for taxi written tests will be improved from $date l , a spokesman for the transport department (td) said today ( monday ) .
the department has recently reviewed the waiting time for written tests for various types of vehicles with a view to further improving service to the public .
" the average waiting time for taking a taxi written test will be cut to $number days , comparing with $number days in the past six months . " the new arrangement is in line with that for the written tests for private cars / light goods vehicles / motorcycles , " he said .
in connection with the new arrangement , a new taxi written test centre will be set up at td 's hong kong licensing centre on $number floor , united centre , queensway .
this together with the existing one at td 's kowloon licensing centre in dundas street will provide two centres for such tests . " applicants can choose to take their taxi written tests at either of these two centres , " the spokesman said .
value of manufacturers ' orders - on - hand in $date the value of manufacturers ' orders - on - hand for local production in $date decreased by $number over a year earlier , according to the provisional results of a monthly survey released today ( monday ) by the census and statistics department .
comparing $date with $date , the value of orders in the printing & publishing products industry increased by $number .
on the other hand , decreases of various magnitudes in the value of orders were recorded in the plastic products industry ( $number ) , the electronic products industry ( $number ) , the fabricated metal products industry ( $number ) , the electrical products industry ( $number ) , the wearing apparel products industry ( $number ) and the textiles industry ( $number ) .
compared with $date , and bearing in mind that this comparison may be affected by seasonal factors , the value of manufacturers ' orders - on - hand in $date increased by $number .
the monthly survey of orders - on - hand covers a sample of some $number manufacturing firms engaging $number or more workers . manufacturers ' orders - on - hand refer to orders and parts of orders received earlier by manufacturers for local production which remain unfilled as at the end of the reference month .
orders received by traders not engaged in production are included if such orders are further placed to manufacturers for production locally . however , orders placed to manufacturing firms for production in the mainland of china and other places outside hong kong are not included in this series of orders - on - hand statistics .
a spokesman of the department pointed out that caution should be exercised in interpreting the manufacturers ' orders - on - hand figures in a single month . instead , the trend movement of the series as displayed over a wider span of time points should be looked at .
the survey report for $date , at $ $number a copy , is now available for sale at the government publications centre , queensway government offices , low block , ground floor , queensway , and at the census and statistics department publications unit , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries about the survey results may be made to the industrial production statistics section of the census and statistics department on $number $number .
the following table shows the year - on - year percentage changes in the value of orders - on - hand in different manufacturing industries .
percentage changes in the value of orders - on - hand in $date $date over $date over $date ( revised ) ( provisional ) all industries covered in the survey - $number .
textiles - $number . electronic products - $number . electrical products - $number . fabricated metal products - $number .
the register serves mainly as the sampling frame for various economic surveys conducted by the department . besides , many other government departments and private organisations also make use of the records kept in the register in their publicity , business promotion , survey and research work .
information kept in the central register of establishments is updated on a quarterly basis . updated information in respect of $number quarter of $number is now available .
a sample listing containing $number per cent of the records randomly selected from the register is accessible by prospective users .
application for the supply of non - confidential particulars ( including the name , address , major type of business and employment size class ) of all or part of the listed records can be made to the central register of establishments section of the department .
a charge will be levied for this service , at the following rates : * $ $number per page of photocopy for $number $number pages and $ $number for each additional page thereafter ; or * a charge of about $ $number for a job requiring special computer run ( exact amount depending on the complexity of the job concerned ) , if the information is required on magnetic tapes or floppy diskettes .
the magnetic tapes and floppy diskettes can be provided by the applicant , or by the department at a charge of $ $number per tape and $ $number per diskette respectively .
further details about the provision of this service can be obtained from the central register of establishments section of the department on telephone number : $number $number .
the cover , which complements the exhibition - " hong kong 's heritage - a history of $number $number years " now on display at the heritage resource centre of the antiquities and monuments office (amo) , is $number in a series of postal items to commemorate the various activities of the year of heritage .
priced at hk $ $number each , the cover bears the hk $ $number stamp of british royal cypher which was cancelled by the special postmark of $date . production quantity is limited to $number pieces .
a spokesman for the amo said : " it is worthwhile to collect a full set of commemorative covers in memory of the year of heritage .
while $number cover has already been sold out , a very limited stock for $number cover is still available . "
the opening hours of the sale counter at the heritage resource centre at $number nathan road , tsim sha tsui are from $number am $number pm , monday to friday .
for enquiries , please call the amo at $number $number .
the year of heritage is organised by the antiquities advisory board , the lord wilson heritage trust and the amo of the broadcasting , culture and sport bureau to enhance public awareness of heritage conservation in hong kong .
priorities the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( tuesday ) that " building hong kong on education " was one of the priorities of the special administrative region (sar) government .
mr tung said that education in hong kong should maintain its diversity and incorporate the strength of the chinese and western cultures . it should also improve students ' understanding of chinese culture and history , thus encouraging them to care more for the future of our country .
speaking at the closing ceremony of the " building hong kong on education " project , mr tung stressed the importance of drawing up a comprehensive plan and injecting sufficient resources to improve the quality of education .
we will also promote a balanced development on 'ethics , the intellect , the physique , social skills and aesthetics ' , and enhance students ' understanding of hong kong , our country and the world . he added : " the government is committed to raising the professional qualification of teachers and upgrading tertiary education . "
he hoped that young people of hong kong in the next century would treasure traditional chinese virtues and have a new mission towards oneself , the family and the country . they should be able to distinguish between right and wrong , care for the community and keep up with the times .
he also hoped that young people could obtain a wide range of knowledge , think independently and have good communication skills .
the " building hong kong on education " project featured a roving exhibition , an international conference on " language , education and culture " , a gala week and a series of school and community building activities . it was jointly organised by the home affairs department and lingnan college with the assistance of seven other university grants committee - funded tertiary institutions to celebrate the reunification of hong kong with china .
concluding the project today was a closing ceremony cum grand finale at tuen mun town hall which featured musical performance by the hwa xia chinese ensemble and local pop singers .
court of appeal case concerning the provisional legislature in response to media reports concerning the case being heard by the court of appeal today ( tuesday ) , a spokesman for the department of justice pointed out that the position in respect of the legal costs of the three defendants in this case is the same as in all other criminal court cases .
they could pay for their own legal representation , or they could apply for legal aid .
at the close of the hearing , they can also seek an order for costs against the government .
in this case , the court of $number instance did not order the government to contribute to the costs of the defendants .
the court hoped that the government would consider making a contribution .
the department of justice gave careful consideration to this possibility but decided that there is no basis for providing funds for litigants otherwise than in accordance with the normal avenues provided by law .
counsel representing the hksar invited the court of appeal to appoint an amicus curiae ( friend of the court ) .
no amicus has been appointed but , today , the court invited the counsel representing two of the defendants to remain and assist the court , which they did .
court of appeal case on the provisional legislature in relation to the case being heard by the court of appeal today ( tuesday ) , a legal aid department (lad) spokesman pointed out that the chief judge did not direct lad to instruct senior counsel to appear before the court of appeal at the hearing .
the judge hoped that senior counsel might be instructed by lad but recognized that lad had a discretion whether to do so . after careful consideration and taking into account the interests of the legally aided defendant , the director of legal aid decided not to instruct senior counsel .
instead the director assigned counsel for the legally aided defendant in the original proceedings in the court of $number instance to appear and hold a watching brief for that defendant in the court of appeal .
as in all other legal aid cases , the decision in this case was made by lad independently with the legal aid client 's interests in mind .
bd will inspect buildings $number years old the buildings department will conduct detailed inspections of structures of all buildings $number years old and with cantilevered balconies to ensure public safety .
the acting assistant director of buildings ( specialist ) , mr cheung kwok - ming , said today ( tuesday ) that the inspections would be carried out by two structural engineers for completion in about six months .
meanwhile , a closure order has been issued by the hong kong district court this morning for the closure of $number floor of no. 1 p , marble road in north point following the collapse of its balcony last saturday .
mr cheung said that as there was an unprotected opening on the external wall of $number floor , the premises was unsuitable for habitation .
" there is no immediate danger to the building but further investigation will be carried out to the remaining part of the building , " he said .
mr cheung added that the buildings department had set up a special task force to investigate the incident .
samples of building materials including rubbles had been taken from the site for laboratory test .
enforcement action against unauthorized development continue the planning department will continue to take enforcement actions against unauthorized developments as well as unauthorized extension of developments in rural areas .
" under the town planning ordinance , any person who is found guilty of undertaking unauthorized development in a development permission area is liable to a maximum fine of $ $number on $number conviction and $ $number on $number and subsequent convictions , " a spokesman for the department said today ( tuesday ) .
the warning was issued following a recent court case in which an operator of a lard boiling factory in yuen long had been convicted of undertaking unauthorized extension of the factory . " acting on complaints from local villagers about environmental nuisance , we took out prosecution against the operator , " the spokesman said .
the lard boiling factory , with an area of $number square metres , is located in chau tau village , san tin . the factory site falls within an area zoned " green belt " on the san tin outline zoning plan .
although the use of the site as a lard boiling factory is not permitted under the plan , it is tolerated as an " existing use " under the town planning ordinance because the factory existed immediately before the gazette of the san tin interim development permission area plan $date .
" however , the subsequent extension of the factory without obtaining planning permission was unauthorized under the ordinance , " he said .
the spokesman reiterated : " owners , occupiers , prospective purchasers and leasees of land in the rural new territories should ascertain whether the proposed use is permitted under the respective statutory plans or needs planning permission from the town planning board before carrying out any development . "
enquiries about and complaints against unauthorized developments should be made to the planning information and technical administration unit , technical services section , planning department , $number floor , murray building , garden road , hong kong or on telephone $number $number .
they can also be sent to the department 's e - mail address at orta@pland.gcn.gov.hk on the homepage .
the planning department pledges to carry out site inspection to suspected unauthorized development within four weeks after they received a complaint .
tac to issue consultative paper on taxi licensing system the transport advisory committee (tac) decided today ( tuesday ) to issue a public consultation paper on taxi licensing system .
speaking after the meeting , the tac chairman , dr cheng hon - kwan , said that " there is no evidence to suggest that increases in taxi licence premiums have adversely affected taxi services . neither is there any relationship between increases in licence premiums and changes in taxi fares and rentals . "
earlier this year , members of the public expressed concern about a sharp increase in taxi licence premiums , and suggested a review of the taxi licensing system .
in $date the tac re - convened its working group on taxi policy review to undertake this review .
dr cheng said that " while the consultation paper sets out a number of possible alternative taxi licensing systems proposed by the trade and other interested people and parties , the aim of the consultation exercise should be to improve the quality of taxi services . "
both the tac and the working group have agreed to rule out the option of providing an unlimited supply of taxi licences which is not a practical solution in hong kong .
" the working group is also fully aware of the rights and interests of existing taxi licence holders , especially those who are self - employed taxi - drivers and rely on the licence as a form of retirement protection , " said mr leung kong - yui , chairman of the working group on taxi policy review .
" we consider that any changes to the existing taxi licensing system should not affect the interests of existing licence holders . "
the working group will formally launch the public consultation on $date for a two - month consultation until $date .
copies of the consultation paper will be made available at district offices and transport department 's licensing offices .
the document is also accessible at transport department 's internet home page ( http://www.info.gov.hk/td ) .
" members of the trade and the public are welcome to suggest any measures to improve taxi services , " added dr cheng . " we are open - minded to new ideas . "
transport complaints drop to lowest in past four years the number of complaints and suggestions received by the transport complaints unit of the transport advisory committee $date / $number dropped to an all - time low in the last four years with $number , compared with $number $date / $number , $number $date / $number and $number $date / $number .
public transport services remained the main area of concern , accounting for $number per cent of all the complaints and suggestions received .
this was followed by complaints and suggestions related to traffic conditions ( $number per cent ) and enforcement matters ( $number per cent ) .
of the $number complaints and suggestions about public transport services received , $number ( $number per cent ) were related to taxi services .
the figure represented a $number per cent increase over the previous year .
there were also more complaints against green minibuses ( $number ) ; red minibuses ( $number ) and rail services ( $number ) .
there were fewer complaints against china motor bus ( dropped $number ) , citybus ( down $number ) and ferry services ( down $number ) .
the number of complaints against kowloon motor bus remained stable .
complaints about traffic conditions dropped by $number per cent $number .
there were also fewer complaints about enforcement action ( down $number ) .
during the year , there were more complaints about the malfunctioning of traffic lights and aids ( up $number ) .
there were also more requests for additional traffic lights and signs ( up $number ) .
all suggestions and complaints received by tcu had been referred to the relevant authorities and government departments for investigation .
members of the public may lodge their complaints direct by dialling the $number - hour transport complaints unit hotline $number $number or $number $number throughout the year .
stanley main beach pumping stations ' incident in response to press enquiries on the two pumping stations at stanley main beach , a spokesman for the drainage services department (dsd) today ( tuesday ) said the following : on $date ( monday ) at $number pm , dsd staff on routine inspection noted that there was a large quantity of stormwater flow at the stanley main beach dry weather flow interceptor (dwfi) pumping station .
further inspection at a nearby sewage pumping station (sps) , which receives flow from the dwfi , revealed that some water was overflowing .
although the station was working in normal conditions , the staff also informed environmental protection department immediately ( at $number pm ) to ascertain whether the overflowing water would affect the water quality of the beaches in the vicinity .
staff from the two departments then conducted a joint site inspection to investigate possible impact and to devise immediate remedial measures to improve the situation .
these resulted in the pump in the dwfi being cut off temporarily from service .
the attempt proved to be successful and there was no further sign of overflow at the sps .
meanwhile , epd officers had conducted a dye test to check the water flow .
they had also collected water samples from the relevant beaches for further analysis .
the dsd is closely monitoring the whole operations with a view to re - opening the dwfi when feasible .
stand shelters benefit taxi passengers purpose - built shelters will be provided for taxi stands in the territory as a scheme of improving services to members of the public , the transport department announces today ( tuesday ) .
a department spokesman said the scheme would be implemented in phases each year at suitable locations .
priority will be given to those taxi stands which are more exposed and heavily used .
" shelters at a cost of $ $number for $number taxi stands will be provided for in this financial year .
" twelve each will be selected in the urban and the new territories areas depending on results of consultation with the taxi trade and provisional district boards . "
construction works will start as soon as consultation completes .
" in fact , covered shelters for one - $number of the $number existing taxi stands are already provided at many major public transport interchanges and commercial developments .
" passengers at many other road side taxi stands are protected by buildings nearby , " he added .
department of health launches homepage on internet members of the public can now get to know more about the work of the department of health (dh) and obtain important health indices and statistics through its homepage on internet to be launched on wednesday ( $date ) .
in welcoming the internet users to visit the newly set up homepage , the director of health , dr margaret chan said : " health has no boundary and i hope that through this homepage , we can liaise closely with partners in health in hong kong and all over the world . "
the homepage contains a total of $number topics including main services provided by the department , its mission and vision , performance pledges , useful telephone numbers and organisation chart .
some major health statistics and indices including the $number leading causes of death in hong kong with breakdown in age and sex ; number of notifications of notifiable diseases ; life expectancy and crude death rate of hong kong people can be obtained easily by downloading the information from the website .
also accessible are major press releases issued by the department which contain information on newly released aids figures , new services or expansion of services and special announcements .
one of the latest news bulletins on the homepage is the detailed arrangements of the $number special measles vaccination campaign .
the address of department of health homepage is " http://www.info.gov.hk/dh/ " . it can also be accessed through the homepage of the government information centre , hk special administrative region of the people 's republic of china .
the homepage will be updated regularly to provide internet users with latest information .
fresh water cut in sham shui po fresh water supply to some premises in sham shui po will be suspended from $number pm on friday ( $date ) to $number am the following day for waste detection work on watermains .
the suspension will affect all premises in the area bounded by lime street , tung chau street , tai kok tsui road and larch street .
rates cut neither justified nor equitable : s for tsy the secretary for the treasury , mr k c kwong , this ( wednesday ) evening reiterated that it was neither justified nor equitable to reduce rates on the ground that government rent was also being charged .
speaking at the motion debate on " reduction of rates percentage charge " at the provisional legislative council meeting , mr kwong said the government could not accept the proposal to reduce rates $number .
" we however fully appreciate the sentiments of members that we should allow the community to share the fruits of our economic growth , enable the public of hong kong to enjoy a fiscal dividend from the success they have created , and reduce the burden on the taxpayers in the light of our overall economic and financial position , " he said .
" we would carefully consider the various other ways we can do this when we draw up proposals for the next budget . "
he explained that adjustments to taxes were matters for the budget , having regard to the overall economic and fiscal position at the time and our social objectives .
" it is pre - mature for us to reach any conclusion now , when we are still in $number few months of the financial year , and it is wrong to consider rates in isolation , without having a comprehensive look at the overall revenue situation or the effect on the municipal councils , " he said .
mr kwong pointed out that the overall rates percentage charge had been reduced $number in the $number budget and the present $number rate charge was an all - time low .
" apart from reducing the overall rates charge , we have also capped rates increases to no $number each year $date $number and $date $number .
with these concessions , $number of ratepayers pay the same or lower rates $date $number after the general revaluation . for the rest , the increase is no $number , " he said .
mr kwong said the rating and valuation department had received objections to the new rateable values in respect of only $number of the total number of tenements subject to rates after the general revaluation and this was a fair indication that the results of the general revaluation exercise had largely been accepted by the community .
noting that domestic rates now remain at $number of household income after the revaluation , the same as that $date , he said the package of concessions provided in the $number budget was very reasonable to minimise the impact of the general revaluation on ratepayers and the current rates burden was by no means heavy .
on government rent , he said it was entirely different from rates . rates are levied on the occupation of properties while government rent is charged in accordance with annex iii to the joint declaration and article $number of the basic law .
mr kwong said : " government rent is charged under the following two circumstances for extending or granting land leases : * for the extension of non - renewable leases up to $number in place of premium payment ; and * for granting new leases $date for terms beyond $date and up to $number without additional premium payment .
" the charging of government rent is therefore a concession . otherwise , property owners would have to pay an additional premium for the lease extension or the new lease with terms beyond $number , and their financial burden would be a lot greater under such circumstances . "
the secretary for the treasury noted that while $number tenements were subject to rates payment , less than $number of these tenements were also subject to government rent .
in the provisional urban council area in particular , less than $number of the private sector properties subject to rates are also subject to government rent .
many non - domestic properties also enjoyed a reduction in rates after the general revaluation .
the liability to government rent therefore could not be accepted as a justification for an across - the - board reduction in rates .
responding to concern about the increasing financial burden on those who have to pay both rates and government rent , mr kwong said although rates and government rent were separate issues , he did appreciate that they might have to be paid from the same pocket .
" but we should have a clear perspective and sense of proportion about this , " he said .
" for private sector domestic properties , the average monthly government rent payable per unit is $ $number .
" in respect of domestic properties which are subject to both rates and government rent , the combined payment of the two represents $number of household income , which is still lower than the level for rates payment alone , of some $number before $date . "
on fiscal policy , mr kwong said : " our sound financial position depends largely on our strict discipline in controlling expenditure and our efforts in maintaining a stable and productive revenue base .
" rates are a long - standing , stable and broadly - based revenue source .
we expect to receive $ $number in general rates $date $number , representing $number of our total estimated revenue .
a two percentage point reduction in the overall rates percentage charge as proposed in today 's motion would cut rates revenue by over $ $number , i.e. resulting in our forgoing virtually all general rates revenue .
" this would have the effect of significantly narrowing our tax base with its long - term impact on our fiscal stability .
also , to do so within mere weeks of the establishment of the sar government would send the wrong signal to the world that the sar government had begun to depart from the long - standing and prudent principles in the management of public finance which constitute the basis of the success of hong kong . "
mr kwong noted the suggestion made by some members that since hong kong had a strong fiscal reserve and since healthy surpluses were also anticipated in the next few years , the government could afford to forgo the revenue on general rates .
" i must remind members that we may need to make substantial contributions in the next few years towards the construction of high priority projects under the railway development strategy in order to improve our transport infrastructure for the next millennium , " he said .
" a substantial part of our forecast surpluses in the next few years will have to be used to meet these huge capital investments .
if we can manage to have sustained surpluses after allowing for these heavy infrastructural investments , we can consider tax concessions . "
as regards impact on municipal services , mr kwong said in the provisional urban council area , the provisional urban council rate was $number and government rate was $number .
in the provisional regional council area , the provisional regional council rate is $number and government rate was $number .
" the proposed reduction in rates would mean that the provisional regional council would receive $ $number less in rates revenue in the $number triennium , a reduction of nearly $number " he said .
" as the provisional regional council , like all of us , will have to live within its means , such a substantial reduction in rates revenue would force it to substantially reduce the services provided , with serious adverse consequence for its plans to expand facilities and maintain services for the people living in the new territories . "
noting that government would carefully consider the various ways to reduce the burden on taxpayers , mr kwong said the financial secretary would consult provisional legislative council members on the revenue proposals for the next budget in autumn .
" we will carefully examine the views received in the consultation exercise .
if it is proved that there are scope and merits for tax concessions to be made as a fiscal dividend to the community , we would no doubt consider the best form that these concessions should take , having regard to the long term benefit of hong kong and the overall needs of the community , " he concluded .
assistance given to hk residents in cambodia following is a question by the hon hui yin - fat and a written reply by the acting secretary for security , mrs carrie yau , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : it is learnt that during the recent political turmoil in cambodia , $number hong kong residents approached the chinese embassy ( the embassy ) in phnom penh for assistance .
however , the embassy only advised them to find a safe route to leave cambodia by themselves without rendering them any assistance .
in this connection , will the government inform this council : (a) whether it knows if the embassy offered assistance to these hong kong residents ; if it did not , the reasons for not offering assistance ; (b) whether it has requested the central government or the embassy to provide assistance to these hong kong residents ; if not , why not ; (c) whether it knows of the kinds of assistance or service the chinese organisations stationed in foreign countries will provide to hong kong residents in case of political turmoil or warfare in these countries ; and whether such organisations will take the initiative to evacuate hong kong residents from the war zone and if not , why not ; and (d) of the specific measures in place to safeguard the personal safety of hong kong residents who are caught in the midst of a war in a foreign country ?
reply : mrs president , (a) we have been advised that during the military conflict in cambodia , the chinese embassy at phnom penh had taken various measures to assist the hong kong residents there . these included representations made to the cambodian authorities asking them to adopt measures to protect all chinese citizens who are hong kong residents ; setting up of a hot - line at the embassy ; issuing notices to those citizens inviting them to register with the embassy so that they could monitor their well - being ; assisting in transporting some hong kong residents to safety area from the war zone ; and helping some others to leave the country upon their request .
the embassy has also urged the cambodian authorities to resume flight arrangement between hong kong and cambodia as soon as cambodia 's situation returned to normal .
(b) since the military conflict broke out in phnom penh on $date , the government had kept in touch with the chinese ministry of foreign affairs on the assistance being offered to hong kong residents in cambodia .
the ministry has assured us that hong kong residents who are chinese nationals or british national ( overseas ) passport holders can seek consular assistance from the chinese embassy .
(c) the chinese ministry of foreign affairs has advised us that in case of political turmoil in a foreign country , the chinese embassy would take all necessary measures to protect hong kong residents there .
(d) consular protections are offered by chinese embassies .
in such connection , we have the assurance from the ministry of foreign affairs that all chinese embassies stand ready to protect the interests of hong kong residents abroad .
in time of war in a foreign country , the chinese embassy there would take all necessary measures to protect hong kong residents .
old cars scrapping incentive scheme following is a question by the hon mrs lau kin - yee , miriam and a written reply by the secretary for the treasury , mr k c kwong , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : the government implemented the old cars scrapping incentive scheme in $date last year by offering concession on motor vehicle $number registration tax so as to encourage the owners of private cars of ten or more years old to scrap their old cars .
in this connection , will the government inform this council : (a) of the number of private cars which were ten or more years old in hong kong when the scheme was introduced , as well as the current number of such private cars ; (b) of the total number of old cars scrapped under the scheme and the total amount of tax concession offered since the implementation of the scheme ; (c) of the average number of years for which the car owners enjoying such a tax concession had owned the scrapped old cars since the implementation of the scheme ; and (d) how it will assess the effectiveness of the scheme ?
reply : (a) when the old cars scrapping incentive scheme was $number introduced on $date , there were $number private cars which were ten or more years old in hong kong .
the current number of such private cars is $number ( $number cars turned ten years old after the implementation of the scheme ) .
(b) up to $date , a total of $number old private cars were scrapped under the scheme .
$number registration tax concession was granted in respect of $number cases with the registration of replacement cars ( the entitlement for the tax concession under the scheme is valid for six months from the date the old car is scrapped ) .
the total tax concession granted amounts to $ $number ( on average , $ $number per car ) .
(c) on average , car owners who had received tax concession under the scheme had owned the scrapped cars for seven years .
(d) over $number private cars of ten years old or more have been scrapped since the implementation of the scheme $number months ago ( $number per month on average ) .
these cars might not have been scrapped and replaced if there had not been such a scheme .
we consider that the scheme has , to a certain extent , helped to improve air quality on the road by encouraging car owners to scrap and replace their old private cars .
no abuse has so far been detected .
we will continue to monitor the implementation of the scheme and assess its effectiveness in the coming year .
ta approves general tariff revision for hong kong telephone the telecommunications authority (ta) has approved a general tariff revision of hong kong telephone company limited (hktc) , including the introduction of timed charge for local calls made from payphones operated by hktc , with effect from $date .
under the existing telephone regulation , hktc may revise the charges for its services on an annual basis by not more than the general inflation rate ( based on the consumer price index (cpi) ) less $number .
the prices for rental charge for residential lines may not be increased by more than the general inflation rate less $number per annum .
under the general revision approved , the monthly rental of residential lines will be increased from $ $number to $ $number while that of commercial lines will be increased from $ $number to $ $number .
" the weighted average of the increase is $number per cent and this meets the " price cap " limit under the telephone regulation . this means that consumers will benefit from a $number real reduction in the charges of hktc , " said a spokesman for the office of the telecommunications authority (ofta) .
as part of the general revision , the charge for existing and new customers to remove their names and telephone numbers from the telephone directory has been removed .
although this charge had been in place for many years and was to cover the administrative cost involved , the company has agreed to remove this charge from the tariff table so that the customers do not need to incur a charge to protect their privacy .
the revision has included the introduction of timed charge for making local calls from payphones operated by hktc .
with effect from $date , the charge for making a local call from payphones of hktc will be $ $number per five minutes .
at present , the charge for making a local call at payphones operated by hktc is $ $number . there is no time limit to the length of the call .
" from time to time , the ta received views expressing concerns over the prolonged occupation of payphones , particularly those located in busy areas , " said the ofta 's spokesman .
" the purpose of the timed charge on payphones is to improve the quality of service by discouraging prolonged occupation of payphones .
" hktc will not receive additional revenue from the timed charge arrangement because any additional revenue will be taken into account in computing the allowable price increase under the general tariff revision . "
" a three - month trial of timed charges for public payphones was conducted earlier this year by hktc .
" in approving the timed charge for payphones , the ta has taken into consideration the findings of this trial which showed the timed charge arrangement would be supported by the majority of the general public .
" the ta has also consulted the telecommunications users and consumers advisory committee of ofta and reported its findings to the economic services panel of the legislative council in $date , " added the spokesman .
hktc will progressively implement the timed charge arrangement on the payphones within a month .
clear signs to guide customers will be displayed on the payphones operating under the new timed charge arrangement .
" the approval of the timed charge for payphones bears no relations to the charges for residential and business telephone lines which remain on a flat - rate basis , " emphasised the spokesman .
contract signed for completing sewer tunnel system the director of drainage services , mr john collier , signed a $ $number contract today ( thursday ) to complete the sewer tunnel system from kwai chung to stonecutters island .
the works include the completion of sewer tunnels from kwai chung to tsing yi and from tsing yi to stonecutters island , as well as the completion of deep shafts and ancillary site works at kwai chung preliminary treatment works and stonecutters island sewage treatment works (sistw) .
" when the sewer tunnels are completed , they will enable sewage from the tsuen wan , kwai chung and tsing yi areas to be conveyed to stonecutters island for treatment , " mr collier said .
" this will increase significantly the utilisation of the sistw from the current $number per cent to $number per cent of its capacity , " he said .
the main works will commence later this month for completion in $date .
the contract forms part of the three contracts which cover the completion of the strategic sewage disposal scheme - stage i sewer tunnel system .
the contract is awarded to skanska international civil engineering ab .
normal beach water quality in stanley and tuen mun the result of the analysis available today ( thursday ) on water samples taken from the stanley main and hairpin beaches on tuesday ( $date ) indicates that the beach water quality is within the normal acceptable level and is suitable for swimming .
making the announcement , a spokesman for the environmental protection department (epd) said the water quality of both beaches was currently grade $number .
the stanley main and hairpin beaches were closed by the provisional urban council on monday ( $date ) soon after the drainage services department reported to epd that the sewage pumping station at stanley main beach could not cope with the large quantity of inflow , and epd considered that the water quality at both beaches could be adversely affected .
the spokesman said the water quality of the five tuen mun gazetted beaches , closed by the provisional regional council on $date continues to improve .
the results of the analysis available today ( thursday ) on water samples taken on tuesday ( $date ) indicate that the beach water quality of all the five beaches is back to the normal acceptable level .
the water quality of golden beach , new cafeteria , old cafeteria , kadoorie and butterfly beaches is grade $number and is suitable for swimming .
" we are continuing to investigate the cause for the adverse water quality and will continue to take samples at these beaches for any signs of deterioration in beach water quality , " he said .
cpg 's positive statement welcomed the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , received the central people 's government (cpg) 's formal authorisation for the government of the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) to negotiate visa abolition agreements and arrangements with other foreign countries today ( friday ) .
an sar government spokesman welcomed the cpg 's positive statement about promoting the travel convenience of hong kong residents . holders of the hksar passport enjoy visa - free access to $number countries at present .
" we have done a lot to promote the travel convenience of hong kong residents .
we will continue to approach more countries , especially popular destinations of hong kong people , for visa - free access for hksar passport holders , " the spokesman said .
response to comments on consultation exercise an sar government spokesman today ( friday ) commented on recent media reports on the consultation exercise on the delineation of the electorate for the new functional constituencies and the election committee for $number sar legislative council election .
on suggestions that the consultation period was too short and the scope of consultation too narrow , the spokesman noted that discussion on the arrangements for $number sar legco election had been going on for some time in the community .
" indeed , there have been ample opportunities for the public to air their views , " the spokesman said .
for example , different individuals and organisations had put forward comments and suggestions to the preparatory committee .
a two week consultation was also conducted by the chief executive ( designate ) 's office in $date this year .
the spokesman explained that the recent decisions made by the executive council on the choice of the new functional constituencies , the concept and criteria for the delineation , and the formation method for the election committee were arrived at having full regard to the recommendations of the preparatory committee and views previously expressed in the community .
" insofar as the delineation of electorate is concerned , the government is following the traditional concept and criteria , " the spokesman added .
" it was in accordance with these concept and criteria , which the public are well familiar with , that the list of proposed electorate for the new functional constituencies and the seven designated groups of the election committee was drawn up . "
the spokesman said that the objective of the consultation exercise was to invite public views on the completeness of the list as set out in the consultation document , having regard to the established concept and criteria for delineation .
" we should now focus on the practical question of detailed delineation rather than debating on basic principles which have already been settled , " the spokesman remarked .
the government has tried to be as comprehensive as possible in compiling the list , but would welcome views on whether there are deserving cases which have been omitted from the list , and whether any of the organisations included in the list should be left out because they are not representative of the sectors concerned or because they are no longer active .
the spokesman urged the public to forward their views to the constitutional affairs bureau by $date .
" we need to finalise the list quickly as it will form part of the draft electoral legislation which will be introduced into the provisional legislative council in late $date , " the spokesman noted .
in the circumstances , it will not be possible to extend the deadline for the consultation period .
" if we receive submissions which are one or two days late , we will try to process them as flexibly as we could , but we must adhere strictly to the target of introducing the electoral legislation once the legislature returns from recess . "
the spokesman concluded that preparation for the elections must move ahead at full speed since there is less than a year before the election .
primary legislation providing the overall framework of the election will need to be put in place as soon as possible so that other practical arrangements can immediately follow .
hksar and uk sign air services agreement the government of the hong kong special administrative region (sar) today ( friday ) signed an air services agreement with the government of the united kingdom (uk) .
the secretary for economic services , mr stephen ip , signed the agreement on behalf of the hong kong sar government while the british consul - general in hong kong , mr francis cornish , signed on behalf of the uk government .
speaking at the signing ceremony , mr ip said the signing of the hong kong sar / uk air services agreement today had particular significance as the agreement was $number signed by the hong kong sar government .
" in line with the provision of the basic law , the hong kong sar government will continue to negotiate and conclude air services agreements with our aviation partners , " he said .
according to article $number of the basic law , under specific authorisations from the central people 's government , the hong kong sar government may negotiate and conclude air services agreements for scheduled air services to , from or through hong kong , which do not operate to , from or through the mainland of china .
noting that the uk is an important partner of hong kong , mr ip said the two sides had very close links in aviation , trade , investment and other activities .
$date , four airlines , namely cathay pacific , air hong kong , british airways and virgin atlantic , operated $number flights between the two places , carrying $number passengers and $number tonnes of cargo .
mr ip said : " the agreement provides a legal framework for air services between the hong kong sar and the uk . this is in the best interests of our economy and the travelling public . "
" looking ahead , we will continue to work towards concluding air services agreements with other partners . and we will make every effort to maintain the status of hong kong as a centre of international and regional aviation , " he added .
the hong kong sar / uk agreement , which enters into force today , is $number air services agreement signed by hong kong . hong kong has signed similar agreements with the netherlands , switzerland , canada , brunei , france , new zealand , malaysia , brazil , sri lanka , australia , germany , india , korea , singapore , italy , japan , myanmar , thailand , usa , indonesia and the philippines .
statement by the chief justice the following is issued on behalf of the chief justice , mr justice li today ( friday ) : " i was deeply saddened to learn of the death of mr justice jerome chan in queen mary hospital this morning .
the late mr justice chan was in private practice before joining the judiciary $date .
he was elevated to the high court $date . he had a distinguished career on the bench . his judicial work commanded high respect and he made an enormous contribution to the development of the use of chinese .
further , he made his mark as listing judge in which capacity he introduced significant reforms to listing procedure .
despite his health , his devotion to and enthusiasm for work and his strong will to live were examples to us all .
the judiciary joins with me and my wife in extending our most sincere condolences to his wife and family on their bereavement . "
a full court will be convened at $number am on thursday ( $date ) by the chief justice to pay tribute to the late mr justice chan .
fs discusses four topical hong kong economic issues the financial secretary , mr donald tsang today ( friday ) discussed four topical hong kong economic issues at the opening ceremony of the far eastern meeting of econometric society symposium .
the four issues were : the choice between manufacturing and services as the anchor for the economy ; provision for retirement ; trade unionism and collective bargaining ; and the regional currency situation .
addressing the concern over the shrinking manufacturing employment , the financial secretary noted the argument by some quarters claiming that manufacturing activity was solidly based whereas service activity was fickle .
in his opinion , value - added was the ultimate trick .
that is to say whether it provides better profits for our companies and better paid jobs for all our people , " he said .
" to borrow an analogy from our late patriarch mr deng xiaoping , it does not matter whether it is a white cat or black cat as long as it catches mice .
" we should choose an industry , manufacturing or service , which yields the highest growth for our economy and the highest reward for our labour force . "
mr tsang also said hong kong people must lift their mental horizon beyond the geographic boundary of the special region in developing a longer term economic strategy , and cast their sight on the whole of the nation , embracing particularly neighbouring provinces and regions on the mainland .
" i see hong kong in the same role as frankfurt in germany , london in the united kingdom or manhattan in the usa , " he added .
turning to provision for retirement , mr tsang said the mandatory provident fund system based on individual contributions , had the benefits of avoiding burdening the future generation .
" kind intentions and political pressures often make bad economics in planning a retirement scheme . we must remember that without the discipline of a linkage to contributions , there would be irresponsible political pressure to increase payout and to trim down contributions , " he said .
noting that the government was now working intensively on the detailed regulations for the systems to be launched within this year , he said a welcome spin - off from the system would be the strong boost to our capital market .
" the substantial amount of savings institutionalised by an mpf scheme will create a huge new source of supply of long - term investment funds for our corporate sector to be mobilised through long - term debt instruments , " mr tsang said .
$number issue that mr tsang addressed was labour relations .
in response to legislation passed by the previous legislative council on trade union powers and collective bargaining , mr tsang said what worried him was that the long - standing wage setting practice based on market forces might give way to collective wage setting , where the union 's bargaining strength was likely to dominate .
" as such , compulsory collective bargaining would distort the wage structure in the labour market .
it would reduce the flexibility of wage adjustment , particularly during any downswing in an economy cycle , " he said .
mr tsang believed that in a vibrant and efficient economy such as hong kong , there was simply no justification for a collective bargaining system which could legally force employers into a corner .
he emphasised that compulsory collective bargaining did not in any way create jobs .
responding to criticisms that the government had been undemocratic for suspending the implementation of the relevant legislation , the financial secretary stressed that , quite on the contrary , the government wanted it to be truly democratic .
" the problem is that those legislative items have not gone through proper consultation in the established forum of the labour advisory board . the implications of these laws have not been thoroughly deliberated by all parties concerned , " mr tsang said .
" we need more time to consider .
our move is merely designed to restore debate and deliberation to their proper tracks . "
mr tsang fully supported the legitimate functions of trade unions and appreciated the services they rendered to local workers . however , he believed that excessive trade union powers were not conducive to the efficient functional of the economy .
" as evidence elsewhere testifies , a high degree of trade union influence is often associated with rather high unemployment , and possibly also slower economic growth , " he said .
" a world bank study on a number of economies shows that wage distortions away from the market - clearing level are more prominent where trade unions are active . "
furthermore , mr tsang said that artificial restrictions on the workings of the market were detrimental to the vitality and competitiveness of the economy . while other advanced economies , including hong kong 's competitors were consciously seeking to become less rigid , mr tsang saw no reason to go against the trend .
the last issue which mr tsang addressed was exchange rates .
noting the recent upheavals leading to the depreciation of a number of asian currencies , mr tsang said he was confident in the ability of hong kong 's exchange rate system to withstand shocks and speculative attacks .
" we have a robust monetary regime that has time and again stood up well to abrupt developments , " he said .
" we have ample foreign exchange reserves for maintaining exchange rate stability . " above all , mr tsang thought hong kong 's sound economic fundamentals were the foremost factors buttressing our financial strength .
these included decent economic growth , moderate inflation , low employment , flexible labour market and tight discipline in the management of public finances .
mr tsang said getting the fundamentals right was far more important that devising effective , counteractive measures in times of currency trouble .
" it is the key to ensuring lasting financial stability , " he concluded .
tender to expand border vehicle holding place invited the highways department today ( friday ) invites tenders for the construction works for the expansion of northbound vehicle holding area at sha tau kok crossing .
the area at the north - western of the junction of sha ho road and sha tau kok road inside the border closed area will be expanded $number goods vehicle holding places .
the works also comprise : * re - alignment of an existing village road and footpath , * widening of an approximately $number metres long section of sha ho road at the exit of the vehicle holding area ; and * extension of an existing pedestrian subway across the widened sha ho road .
construction will start in $date this year for completion in $date .
tender notice was published in the government gazette today .
tenders forms are obtainable from the regional highway engineer / new territories , highways department , room $number , $number / f , ho man tin government offices , $number chung hau street , kowloon .
a tender must be sealed and clearly marked with the tender reference on the envelope and addressed to the chairman , public works tender board .
it should be placed in the public works tender box on $number / f queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong before noon on $date .
later submissions will not be accepted .
the new territories region of highways department designed the works and will supervise its construction .
sha tin atc system in good progress the transport department today ( friday ) awarded a contract to the hong kong telephone company limited for providing private communications circuits for the sha tin area traffic control (atc) system .
the $ $number - million contract is for the installation and five - year rental of $number numbers of private leased circuits .
a department spokesman said : " it will put the sha tin atc system a step further to its completion in $date .
" the system , which includes a central computer , road side controllers and detectors , will put $number road junctions in sha tin under surveillance through leased circuits .
" the heavy traffic at these junctions will be smoothly co - ordinated to increase their capacity , reduce journey time and minimise the number of stops by vehicles at traffic signals . "
in addition , the system will be supplemented by $number closed circuit television (cctv) cameras at strategic locations to monitor traffic situations real time on line so that quick traffic responsive measures could then be implemented .
a typical example is the junction at tai chung kiu road and siu lek yuen road near city one sha tin .
" the whole project including the cctv system , estimated to cost $ $number , is for completion in $date , " he added .
provisional statistics of retail sales for $date the value of total retail sales in $date , estimated at $ $number , increased by $number when compared with $date .
after discounting the effect of price changes over the period , total retail sales increased by $number in volume .
these are provisional figures on retail sales released today ( friday ) by the census and statistics department .
compared with a year ago , sales of motor vehicles continued to record a significant increase , by $number in value and $number in volume .
sales of jewellery , watches and clocks and valuable gifts also surged , by $number in value and $number in volume .
concurrently , sales of other commodities also recorded increases of various magnitudes in both value and volume . these included other consumer durable goods ( $number in value and $number in volume ) ; miscellaneous consumer goods ( $number in value and $number in volume ) ; food , alcoholic drinks and tobacco ( $number in both value and volume ) and fuels ( $number in value and $number in volume ) .
besides , sales in supermarkets and department stores registered increases of $number and $number in value respectively . in volume terms , they rose by $number and $number respectively .
on the other hand , sales of clothing and footwear rose by $number in value , but declined by $number in volume .
compared with $date ( but bearing in mind that this comparison is affected by seasonal factors ) , total retail sales in $date increased by $number in value and $number in volume .
comparing the period $date with the same period $date , total retail sales rose by $number in value and $number in volume .
the volume of retail sales is derived from the value of retail sales after adjusting for price changes . the relevant components of the consumer price index are used as deflators .
starting from the reference month of $date , a new series of value and volume indices reflecting changes in the combined sales of supermarkets and supermarkets operating in department stores was compiled . the new indices were shown in table $number as supplementary statistics to provide further reference for certain analytical purposes .
the report containing the analysis of the $date results is now on sale at $ $number per copy at the government publications centre , g / f. , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway ; and the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number / f. , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries about the survey results may be directed to the wholesale and retail trade statistics section of the census and statistics department ( tel . no. : $number $number ) .
drainage channels to be built to solve flooding the government will construct drainage channels between castle peak road and the kam tin drainage channel now under construction near tai sang wai , yuen long , to solve the flooding problem in ngau tam mei area .
a spokesman for the lands department said today ( friday ) that the work would include excavation and reclamation of an area of $number square metres of foreshore and sea - bed as well as construction of embankments .
the work will start in early $number and is scheduled to be completed by early $number .
a notice showing the extent of the affected area was published in the gazette today .
anyone who considers his / her interest , right or easement in or over the foreshore and sea - bed involved will be affected by the undertaking may send a written claim for compensation to the director of lands on or before $date .
the notice and the plan can be seen at the survey and mapping office of the lands department in murray building , garden road , hong kong , and at the yuen long district office , yuen long district office building , $number castle peak road , yuen long .
new public pier in po toi o the government will construct a public pier at po toi o in sai kung to improve berthing and landing facilities for local villagers and other members of the public .
the pier , with an area of $number square metres , will facilitate the some $number local villagers and many other members of the public who use fishing boats , kaitos and small motorized sampans for transportation .
the project , proposed by the sai kung district office , forms part of the rural planning and improvement strategy programme .
the project will begin in early $number for completion in $date .
the works will be carried out within $number square metres of foreshore and sea - bed near po toi o. the extent of the area affected is described in a notice of authorization published in the gazette today ( friday ) .
any person who considers that his interest , right or easement in or over the foreshore and seabed involved will be affected by the work may send a written claim for compensation to the director of lands before $date .
the notice , together with a related plan , can be seen at lands department 's survey and mapping office , $number floor , murray building , garden road , hong kong and at the sai kung district office , $number floor , sai kung government offices building , $number chan man street , sai kung .
tai lam tunnel section of west rail phase i gazetted the railway scheme for the tai lam tunnel section of phase i of west rail ( formerly named western corridor railway ) was gazetted today ( friday ) .
a government spokesman explained that recognizing the urgent need for a rail link between tuen mun and urban kowloon , west rail would be implemented in two phases .
phase i will provide an approximately $number km long electrified double - track railway system .
it will run from yen chow street at west kowloon to tuen mun via tsuen wan , kam tin , yuen long and tin shui wai providing a domestic passenger service .
the project programme envisages completion to yuen long by end of $number and to tuen mun by $date .
the spokesman said : " we have been working full steam in order to ensure that planning and design work on west rail is completed as early as possible .
" allowing time for handling objections by members of the public to the proposed alignment and to resolve objections , the railway scheme for the tai lam tunnel section will need to be gazetted now .
" we will be gazetting the other sections of west rail in stages .
the tai lam tunnel section , which is being gazetted today , is the most critical part in west rail .
any delay in this section will cause serious delays to the whole project . "
the tai lam tunnel section is approximately $number km long . it will run between the intersection of hoi on road at hoi hing road in tsuen wan and the southern part of kam tin valley .
members of the public will have , until $date , an opportunity to raise objection to the tai lam tunnel section of west rail .
coloured sign posts for no - stopping zones the transport department will put on trial a colour code system for different no - stopping restricted zones in selected sites in causeway bay .
announcing the trial today ( friday ) , senior engineer ( standards section ) of the department 's road safety and standards division , mr kwok wai - kin , said : " the sign posts of the no - stopping zones will be painted with one of the three designated colours , each indicates a restriction period . "
sign posts in green represent a $number am $number am / $number pm $number pm stopping ban .
sign posts in red denote a $number am to midnight daily no - stopping ban while those painted in yellow indicate a continuous ban from $number am to $number pm .
there is no change for other restrictions which applied to the time periods other than the above standard ones or only to a specific class of vehicle .
the trial scheme is $number implemented in the area bounded by leighton road , gloucester road and canal road east in causeway bay .
at present , no - stopping restricted zones are indicated by the erection of regulatory signs and road markings .
the periods during which the stopping bans applied are shown on the supplementary time plates put underneath the " no - stopping " signs .
for $number - hour restriction , double yellow lines will be painted along the edge of the carriageways . other time periods are indicated by a single solid yellow line marked by the kerbside .
" the new colour scheme for the sign posts which serves advisory purpose can make different stopping restrictions more comprehensible and more easily identified by motorists , " mr kwok said .
the trial is to assess the effectiveness of coloured sign posts and to test its conspicuity and comprehensibility during night time .
a review of the scheme will be carried out in about three months time .
two footbridges to be constructed in siu sai wan the highways department today ( friday ) awarded a works contract to the express builders co . ltd . for the construction of two footbridges in siu sai wan .
the $ $number - million contract includes also associated road , drainage and landscaping works .
one of the footbridges will span across siu sai wan road with connections to existing fullview garden and cheerful garden .
the other one will span across unnamed new road $number and road $number with connection provision to the future public transport interchange .
the footbridges are constructed to enhance pedestrian safety in siu sai wan by providing grade - separated crossings for pedestrians from vehicular traffic .
works will start soon for completion in $date .
the works have been designed by structures division of highways department and construction will be supervised by the department 's hong kong region .
joint council of parent teacher associations in sha tin over $number representatives from parent - teacher associations (pta) in sha tin will attend the inauguration ceremony of $number pta federation in the district , the joint council of pta of the shatin district , tomorrow ( saturday ) .
the chairman of the committee on home - school co - operation (hsc) , mr tik chi - yuen , and the assistant director of education ( services ) , mr chong kwok - kit , will attend the ceremony .
the formation of the joint council indicates an increased awareness of parental involvement in education and home - school co - operation .
it is a regional association formed with the assistance of the hsc , which aims to promote home - school co - operation and help the formation of pta in schools .
housing issues top sarg agenda the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( saturday ) that housing had become the most important issue and the top priority for the special administrative region government .
speaking at a ceremony of the community building project " we build and we care " in tseung kwan o , he said the government attached great importance to housing issues , especially on how to help ordinary people own their homes at reasonable and affordable prices . the ultimate objective was to build a society in which people can live and work in peace and harmony . mr tung said the objective was important in enhancing a sense of belonging to the community and maintaining social stability .
" in fact , we have enough land to meet housing needs . the government has mapped out a $number - year housing development plan and the overall target is to produce $number flats a year , " mr tung noted .
" we aim to raise the home ownership rate from $number per cent at present to $number per cent $date . we will also endeavour to shorten the waiting time for public housing units to an average of about three years , " he said .
he stressed that with determination , the targets would be met as both land and funds were available .
the chief executive said the convention and exhibition centre extension , which took priority over other projects , was completed because of determination . likewise , a new airport with a wide range of facilities would also be constructed by $date next year .
" i am therefore fully confident that the $number - year plan will materialise , " he said .
" the government has established the steering committee on land supply for housing , chaired by the financial secretary , to formulate overall programmes in supplying land for housing development , " mr tung said .
" through this , we hope to prioritise and co - ordinate efforts in planning , land acquisition , land formation , development of transport and other infrastructure " " the committee will also consider expediting approval procedures and deal with everything necessary , " he added .
section $number ( $number ) of the immigration ordinance the immigration department issued a statement today ( saturday ) reminding objectors that the lodging of an objection against the decision of the director of immigration under section $number of the immigration ordinance , cap . $number , does not give them the right to remain in hong kong pending the decision on his / her objection by the chief executive in council .
" under section $number ( $number ) of the immigration ordinance , cap . $number , any persons aggrieved by a decision , act or omission of any public officer taken , done or made in the exercise or performance of any powers , functions or duties under the said ordinance may by notice in writing lodged with the chief secretary for administration within the time prescribed in subsection ( $number ) object to that decision , act or omission .
" but under section $number ( $number ) of the same ordinance , the lodging of an objection does not give the objector the right to remain in hong kong pending the decision on his / her objection by the chief executive in council , " a spokesman for the immigration department said .
" it has come to our notice that a considerable number of visitors seek to change their immigration status after their arrival by submitting applications to the immigration department for employment or investment , etc. instead of acquiring the appropriate visa before coming here .
" many are unable to satisfy the normal immigration policy on entry for employment or investment .
they do not possess a special skill , knowledge or experience of value to and not readily available in hong kong , nor are they in a position to make a substantial contribution to the economy of hong kong .
" when their applications are refused , they lodge objections under section $number of the immigration ordinance and stay in hong kong pending the determination of their objections .
it is rarely necessary for the objectors to remain in hong kong pending determination of the objections , " the spokesman explained . " we have a similar problem with foreign domestic helpers who seek to change employment in hong kong after their employment contracts are terminated .
" many of these foreign domestic helpers whose change of employment applications have been refused because their cases do not fall within the stipulated policy also seek to remain in hong kong pending the determination of their objections . some have been found to have taken up unapproved employment while awaiting decisions on their objections , " he said .
" while certain objectors may have been permitted to remain in hong kong to await the determination of their objections , for immigration control reasons the director 's policy is that objectors will not be allowed to remain in hong kong beyond their limits of stay nor will their limits of stay be extended solely to permit them to await the decisions by the chief executive in council , " he added .
" decisions on objections will not be adversely affected by the objectors not being in hong kong .
the objections will continue to be processed in the normal manner , namely that the objectors will be given a fair hearing and an opportunity to make representations .
" the decisions on the objections will be conveyed to the objectors and where the objections are allowed , appropriate visas will be issued to enable them to come to hong kong " he stated .
flushing water cut on hong kong island flushing water supply to all premises in aberdeen , tin wan and shum wan districts will be suspended between $number am and $number pm on tuesday ( $date ) for maintenance work on watermains .
flushing water cut in kowloon tong flushing water supply to some premises in kowloon tong will be suspended from $number pm on tuesday ( $date ) to $number am the following day for alteration work on watermains .
the suspension wil affect all premises in broadcast drive , fessenden road , marconi road , beacon hill road , ede road , eastbourne road , warwick road , alnwick road , pheonix house and rhondda road .
owners urged to join building safety inspection scheme the buildings department has sent $number advisory letters to property owners and owners ' incorporations urging them to carry out voluntary inspection of their buildings .
the acting assistant director of buildings ( specialist ) , mr cheung kwok - ming , said today ( sunday ) : " responses have been very encouraging . about $number per cent of building owners have expressed interest by enquiring further details about the building safety inspection scheme . "
" the advisory letters are being sent in phases to owners of buildings under $number years old , starting with those completed $date , " mr cheung said .
" we intend to cover $number buildings this year and $number private buildings in the urban areas over the next seven years , " he added .
the building safety inspection scheme was introduced by the buildings department in $date this year to promote preventive maintenance of buildings on a voluntary basis .
" we hope owners will co - operate by engaging building professionals to inspect their buildings , " mr cheung said .
" inspection of buildings should focus on structural strength and stability , conditions of the external wall finishes , adequacy of the fire resistant construction , means of escape in the event of fire and the possibility of overloading of building structures , " he continued .
" we will give advice on the need for remedial works and examine the inspection report to ensure that safety standards are met .
" upon completion of the necessary remedial works on the buildings , the department will consider issuing a letter of satisfaction , " he added .
noting that buildings in hong kong were ageing and increasing in number , mr cheung said proper maintenance was essential as inadequacies of building structure could threaten the safety of the occupants and the general public .
" the scheme will enable owners to detect early signs of ageing and deterioration of building elements so that timely repairs can be carried out , " mr cheung said .
" this will ensure building safety and fire safety for both the occupants and the public at large .
" there will also be definite enhancement in the rental and resale value of the property , thus attracting more favourable mortgage terms and possibly lower insurance premiums to the benefit of the owners , " he added .
half - yearly figures on court insolvency cases released the official receiver , mr robin hearder , said today ( sunday ) that $number half year of $number showed a moderate increase in the number of new court insolvencies in comparison with the same period last year .
there were $number new compulsory company liquidation orders and $number personal bankruptcy orders in $date compared with the corresponding figures of $number and $number for the same period $date .
it could be seen , therefore , the total of $number new insolvencies had increased by $number per cent but corporate failure was still less than $number of new companies incorporated ( $number ) during the same period .
the businesses mainly affected by compulsory company liquidations included garment and knitting manufacturing , importers and exporters , restaurants and canteens , construction and engineering , electrical and electronic manufacturing .
the majority of claims against non - trading individual bankruptcies were guaranteed debts and consumer credit .
petitions were filed by trade creditors ( $number ) , the director of legal aid ( $number ) , banks and financial institutions ( $number ) , landlords ( $number ) , shareholders ( $number ) , self - petitions ( $number ) and others ( $number ) during this $number half year , $number summonses were issued against directors of companies in compulsory liquidation for failure to submit statements of affairs to the official receiver and to keep books and accounts of wound - up companies and $number directors were convicted .
thirteen orders for disqualification of company directors were made by the court in $number half year of $number . the length of disqualification period ranged from one - and - half to five years .
two warrants of arrest were issued against uncooperative bankrupts or directors in $date , making the total outstanding warrants of arrest $number .
total dividends declared by the official receiver during $number half year of $number ( excluding bcchk ) amounted to $ $number in $number insolvencies , as against $ $number in $number insolvencies for the corresponding period of $number .
there were five schemes of arrangement / compositions approved by the court during $number six months of $number , as against seven for the same period in the previous year .
the chief executive will appoint mr gordon siu to take up the post of head of the central policy unit , which is equivalent to the director of bureau rank at d8 .
the government also announced that the chief executive has agreed to the following senior appointments : * mrs fanny law , jp , currently on secondment to the chief executive 's office , will take up the post of commissioner for transport . * mr paul leung , jp , currently deputy secretary for transport , will succeed mr david lan as principal hong kong economic and trade representative , tokyo . * mrs carrie yau , jp , currently deputy secretary for security , will take up the post of the director of administration .
the above appointments will take effect in $date .
commenting on the new appointment , mrs anson chan , the chief secretary for administration , expressed full confidence in the seven officers , saying that " they are all capable and experienced officers who are well qualified for their new appointments " .
following are their biographical notes : mr nicholas ng wing - fui , jp - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - aged $number .
mr ng joined the civil service in $date and became an administrative officer in $date .
he rose to his present rank of director of bureau ( previously secretary , government secretariat ) in $date . during the early years of his career in the administrative service , mr ng served in a variety of branches and departments , including the home affairs department , the former new territories administration , the standing commission on civil service salaries and conditions of service and the former general duties branch .
over the years , mr ng has held a number of senior positions , including deputy secretary for the civil service ( $number ) , deputy secretary for trade and industry ( $number ) , deputy director of information services ( $number ) , secretary - general of the standing commission on civil service salaries and conditions of service ( $number ) and director of administration ( $number ) .
he took up his present appointment as secretary for constitutional affairs in $date .
mr suen joined the civil service in $date and rose to his present rank of director of bureau ( previously secretary , government secretariat ) in $date .
during the early years of his career in the administrative service , mr suen served in a variety of branches and departments , including the former new territories administration , finance branch , the former resettlement department and the former environment branch .
over the years , mr suen has held a number of senior positions , including deputy secretary for environment ( $number ) , deputy secretary for transport ( $number ) , director of city services and director of new territories services in urban services department ( $number ) , deputy director of regional services ( $number ) , regional secretary ( new territories ) ( $number ) and secretary for constitutional affairs ( $number ) .
he took up his present appointment as secretary for home affairs in $date .
from $date , mr suen was seconded to the chief executive 's office .
mr lan joined the civil service in $date and became an administrative officer in $date .
he rose to his present rank of administrative officer staff grade a in $date .
during the early years of his career in the administrative service , mr lan served in a variety of branches and departments , including the former establishment branch , the former resettlement department , urban services department , the former new territories administration and home affairs branch .
over the years , mr lan has held a number of senior positions , including deputy director of housing ( $number ) , deputy postmaster general ( $number ) , deputy secretary for transport ( $number ) , deputy director of education ( $number ) and regional secretary ( hong kong and kowloon ) ( $number ) .
he took up his present appointment as principal hong kong economic and trade representative , tokyo in $date .
mr siu joined the civil service in $date and became an administrative officer in $date .
he rose to his present rank of director of bureau ( previously secretary , government secretariat ) in $date . during the early years of his career in the administrative service , mr siu served in a variety of branches and departments , including the former new territories administration , finance branch , the former social services branch and education department .
over the years , mr siu has held a number of senior positions , including deputy secretary for the civil service ( $number ) , secretary - general of the former office of umelco ( $number ) , postmaster general ( $number ) , commissioner for transport ( $number ) , director , new airport projects co - ordination office ( $number ) and secretary for economic services ( $number ) .
he took up his present appointment as secretary for transport in $date .
mrs fanny law fan chiu - fan , jp - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - aged $number .
mrs law joined the civil service in $date and became an administrative officer in $date .
she rose to her present rank of administrative officer staff grade a in $date .
during the early years of her career in the administrative service , mrs law served in a variety of branches and departments , including security branch , the former medical and health department , economic services branch , housing department , the former city and new territories administration , the former administrative service and information branch , social welfare department and civil service branch .
mrs law attended the harvard mason course $date .
over the years , mrs law has held a number of senior positions , including deputy secretary for the civil service ( $number ) , deputy secretary for planning , environment and lands ( $number ) and senior assistant director of housing ( $number ) .
since $date , mrs law has been on secondment to the chief executive 's office .
mr paul leung sai - wah , jp - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - aged $number .
mr leung joined the civil service in $date and became an administrative officer in $date .
he rose to his present rank of administrative officer staff grade b1 in $date . during the early years of his career in the administrative service , mr leung served in a variety of branches and departments , including the former environment branch , the former new territories administration , the former office of umelco , home affairs department , civil service branch , education and manpower branch and the former deputy chief secretary 's office .
over the years , mr leung has held a number of senior positions , including deputy secretary for the civil service ( $number ) , deputy regional secretary ( hong kong and kowloon ) ( $number ) , deputy secretary for the civil service ( $number ) , deputy secretary for recreation and culture ( $number ) and secretary - general of the standing commission on civil service salaries and conditions of service ( $number ) .
he took up his present appointment as deputy secretary for transport in $date .
mrs carrie yau tsang ka - lai , jp - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - aged $number .
mrs yau joined the civil service in $date and transferred to the administrative service in $date .
she rose to her present rank of administrative officer staff grade b1 in $date .
during the early years of her career in the administrative service , mrs yau served in a variety of branches and departments , including finance branch , the former new territories administration , civil service branch , the former city and new territories administration , the former buildings and lands department , security branch and education and manpower branch .
she was deputy secretary for transport $date and deputy information co - ordinator $number .
she took up her present appointment as deputy secretary for security in $date .
govt sets to launch mpf scheme by end-1998 : sfs the secretary for financial services , mr rafael hui , said today ( monday ) that the target of the hong kong special administrative region government was to implement the mandatory provident fund (mpf) scheme as soon as possible and he was hopeful that much of the preparatory work would be completed by the end of next year for the scheme to commence operations .
he said during the preparatory process , the government had come across a lot of difficulties and in the course of setting the policy , controversial issues might arise and the short - term interest of some people might be affected .
" however , as a responsible government , we must take the long - term interest of the whole community as our primary consideration and try our best in balancing the interests of all affected parties , " he said .
" if anyone continued to insist that the mpf scheme should meet all of his own interests and , thereby , upset the balance which we have achieved through tremendous efforts , thus causing delay to the implementation of the mpf , then he must be held accountable for the losses which the community and our next generation will have to bear . "
addressing the luncheon of the association of chairmen of tung wah group of hospitals , mr hui said that with the enactment of the principal mandatory provident fund ordinance , the government started to prepare the draft subsidiary legislation with a view to implementing the mpf scheme as soon as possible but had encountered numerous difficulties .
" one of our main difficulties is the balance between 'individual ' interests and 'overall ' interests .
what concerns the public most is what benefits a government policy can bring to them individually .
however , government policies often cannot fully meet the individuals ' expectations , " he said .
" as an accountable government , we must start out from the long - term interests of the society as a whole . we have to strike a good balance among the conflicting interests of various parties . "
mr hui said in balancing the interests of various groups , the government had come across a lot of conflicts and controversies at both the policy and implementation levels .
the major conflicts from the policy perspective lie with the level of contributions ; flexibility in scheme operations ; investment restrictions ; and the level of supervision while the interests of employers and employees , the interests among various groups in the financial services sectors , such as banks , trustees , investment managers , insurance companies , scheme administrators and the accountancy profession , give rise to some of the conflicts at the implementation level .
the secretary for financial services said each group within the financial services sector had their own strength and they could take a more positive stance , co - operate with each other and share the mpf market .
" in this respect , the sar government will continue to provide a level playing field for all players and allow them to compete openly and fairly , regardless of size , " mr hui said , adding that the government had no obligation to take special care of the interests of any particular industry .
mr hui noted that with the untiring efforts of all concerned , the preparation of the mpf subsidiary legislation had now been completed .
in designing the mpf scheme , the government had adopted the objectives that it should be simple and easy to understand by both employers and employees , cost - effective to run and should be reliable and secure enough to protect the interests of scheme members .
" during the year - round consultation exercise , we have received valuable comments from the labour , business , financial and professional sectors to help us achieve these three objectives . we have striven to strike a good balance between conflicting interests and the objectives , " he said .
" whilst the solutions may not be regarded as totally satisfactory by some quarters , our responsibilities and objectives are clear - we must safeguard the interests of scheme members and the integrity of the mpf scheme . "
mr hui said the proposals for the mpf scheme had been developed after extensive consultation .
during the process , the labour , business and financial sectors and other related bodies as well as the government had spent a great deal of time , efforts and resources in discussions with a view to enhancing the system and striking a good balance among different parties ' interests .
" our next steps are to study the comments made by various parties on the draft subsidiary legislation , and then submit the legislation for enactment as soon as possible .
we hope that most of the preparatory work will be completed by the end of next year , and that the mpf scheme can commence operations soon afterwards , " he concluded .
residential mortgage survey results for $date new mortgage lending slowed slightly in $date according to the results of the latest monthly survey conducted by the hong kong monetary authority (hkma) .
however , the amount of outstanding loans continued the rapid growth of recent months .
gross new loans decreased during the month by $number to $ $number .
the average size of new loans decreased to $ $number compared with $ $number in $date repayment of loans however also dropped in $date .
as a result , the amount of outstanding loans increased by $number to $ $number in $date , the same as the growth in $date the annualized rate of growth of outstanding loans in the three months to $date increased to $number from $number in the three months to $date the average change over the last twelve months increased to $number in $date from $number in $date new loans approved during the month rose by $number to $ $number , in line with the revival of market activity in may after a relatively quiet month in $date .
new loans approved but not yet drawn also rose to a record high level of $ $number .
" in the light of market conditions during $number half of the year , we have considered whether some additional tightening of lending criteria is required , " said mr david carse , deputy chief executive of the hkma .
" at present further tightening does not seem necessary , though it is not ruled out for the future .
the market has cooled recently in the light of the government 's intention to increase the supply of residential property and to deal resolutely with speculation . "
" what seems required at this stage therefore is that authorised institutions should strictly apply existing criteria , including those in respect of loan to value ratios , " top - up " loans , and debt servicing ratios , " mr carse continued .
" to this end , we have issued a letter to all authorised institutions reminding them of the key aspects of such criteria , and the fact that hkma will take a serious view if institutions are not compliant . "
the trend of price cutting continued in $date .
of new loans approved during $date , $number were priced at best lending rate , compared with $number in $date loans granted at $number above best lending rate dropped to $number in $date from $number in $date gross loans for the purchase of properties in china decreased to $ $number in $date from $ $number in $date the amount of outstanding loans increased by $number to $ $number .
arrangements for direct subsidy scheme clarified in response to enquiries , a spokesman for the education department today ( monday ) clarified some of the arrangements for schools formerly under the bought place scheme (bps) which then joined the direct subsidy scheme (dss) .
the spokesman stressed that pupils formerly allocated to such a school under the bps are not required to pay extra school fees , or move to other premises of the same school , after the switch to dss .
the spokesman added that such ex - bps pupils who remain at the same school premises without paying extra school fees after the school 's admission into the dss , should not have their rights as students affected in any way .
these are the arrangements made between government and the schools concerned .
the spokesman explained that schools which are admitted to the dss will be paid a government subsidy to cover all eligible pupils , whether self - recruited or ex - bps .
he said all ex - bps pupils of the school concerned will be entitled to complete their education at the same premises until secondary $number , secondary $number or secondary $number , whichever is applicable .
those pupils who were previously allocated to the school under the bps are not required to pay any extra school fees after the switch to dss .
in the $number school year , for example , these pupils in s2 and s3 will not be required to pay any school fees while those in secondary $number and secondary $number will only need to pay the standard fee of $ $number and $ $number per year respectively .
ex - bps pupils who remain at the school premises without paying extra school fees should enjoy no fewer facilities and treatment in the new school year than their predecessors in the current school year , the spokesman said .
the man fuk road premises of new method college will be $number school under the bps to join the dss . the school is aware of , and has consented to , the government 's terms and conditions for admission into the dss .
parents who have enquiries may contact the education department on $number $number or $number $number .
special measles vaccination campaign launches today more than $number $number young people today ( monday ) received measles vaccination at department of health (dh) 's general out - patients clinics ( gopcs ) , maternal and child health centres ( mchcs ) , and student health services centres on $number day of the special measles vaccination campaign .
the director of health , dr margaret chan , visited a number of inoculation centres early this morning to see that everything was in place to facilitate the smooth running of the campaign .
dr chan said : " the special measles vaccination campaign is very important in preventing a predicted major measles outbreak in hong kong next year .
" this is the biggest vaccination campaign ever mounted in hong kong . the number of people that will require this special vaccination is estimated to be $number .
" the success of the campaign depends very much on the support of the community and response so far has been encouraging . "
she noted that $number appointment discs had been distributed on the two weeks before the start of the campaign , representing $number per cent of the eligible target population in $number phase .
" in some of the more popular centres , all discs between $date and $date have been given out .
these include the shek wu hui jockey club clinic , the tuen mun clinic , the yan oi polyclinic , the tai po jockey club clinic and the lek yuen clinic , " dr chan said .
" a $number round of additional discs for vaccination in these centres has to be issued to cater for the demand . "
" this is made possible by adjusting the quota of some clinics and re - deploying staff from the less patronised centres to the more popular ones , " she added .
dr chan was confident that with the co - operation of the public , the department of health could complete the special measles vaccination campaign in good time to prevent a major measles outbreak next year .
she called upon people aged $number who had not received measles vaccination before or who had only received one dose of the vaccine to come forward for vaccination between now and $date .
" they should avoid a last minute rush by obtaining an appointment disc in advance . "
dr chan $number visited the lam tin gopc this morning . there she exchanged views with parents and vaccinees on the arrangements of the campaign .
she also briefed them on the possible reactions after vaccination and advised them to contact the nearest mchc or consult their own doctors in case of any problems .
$number phase of the special measles vaccination campaign for people aged $number will run $date .
measles vaccination can be obtained free of charge at dh 's gopcs and mchcs .
appointment disc is now available for collection from these clinics and centres . secondary school students who have appointments with dh 's student health service (shs) between $date and $date will be offered the vaccination at the shs centres .
for persons aged six to $number or those studying in primary schools , vaccination will be given at their schools by inoculation teams from dh between $date and $date this year .
for persons aged one to five and those in kindergartens , vaccination will be provided at the gopcs and mchcs between $date and $date .
appointment discs for this group will be available for collection from $date .
alternatively , members of the public may also obtain vaccination from their private medical practitioners at their own expense .
for enquiries , members of the public can call the special hotline on measles on tel . no : $number $number .
access for permit holders only the trial scheme for relaxation of the existing $number - hour prohibited zone on tung chung road to $number am $number pm daily from mondays to fridays will be implemented tonight ( monday ) .
a spokesman for transport department said : " the new arrangement will not apply to motorists who have no valid lantau closed road permits as tung chung road and all roads on south lantau are closed roads .
" they will not be allowed to enter tung chung road and other closed roads of lantau island . "
he warned : " the police will enforce stringent control on the new arrangements to prevent vehicles without a valid closed road permit entering the prohibition zone . "
this relaxation will enable holders of lantau island closed road permits but without prohibited zone permits to drive their cars through tung chung road to and from south lantau for transport needs during the non - prohibition period .
however , round - the - clock prohibition will still be maintained on saturdays , sundays and public holidays for reasons of traffic and road safety .
preparatory committee on general teaching council set up the education commission has appointed a preparatory committee to work out the detailed arrangements for the establishment of a general teaching council (gtc) in hong kong .
speaking to the media after the meeting of the education commission today ( monday ) , the chairman , professor rosie young , said : " following the agreement to set up a gtc in hong kong at the last meeting , the commission decided to appoint a preparatory committee to draw up the implementation details for establishing the gtc , and to conduct the necessary consultation on various aspects of the gtc . "
the chairman of the preparatory committee is mr andrew leung , who was the chairman of the working group on gtc . members are mainly drawn from the working group on gtc , the council on professional conduct in education and the $number - member gtc panel of education organisations .
" the preparatory committee 's membership includes front - line education workers and members of major education bodies such as the hong kong professional teachers ' union , the education convergence , and the hong kong federation of education workers .
" there are also representatives from the education and manpower bureau and the education department .
many of the preparatory committee members have been closely involved in the past in the deliberation on establishing a gtc in hong kong , " professor young said .
professor young said that the preparatory committee would start working soon .
fresh water cut in kowloon tong fresh water supply to some premises in kowloon tong will be suspended from $number pm on thursday ( $date ) to $number am the following day for alteration work on watermains .
the suspension will affect all premises in broadcast drive , fessenden road , marconi road , beacon hill road , ede road , eastbourne road , warwick road , alnwick road and pheonix house .
court 's decision welcomed by ce following is a statement issued by the chief executive of the hong kong special administrative region , mr tung chee hwa , today ( tuesday ) on the ruling of the court of appeal concerning the provisional legislative council : " we welcome the court 's decision .
today 's ruling confirms that the provisional legislative council is a legal body and laws passed by this council have legal status and are legally binding .
the court 's decision also confirms that common law is an important part of the laws of the sar . "
" the rule of law is one of the important factors contributing to hong kong 's success .
the litigation demonstrates the respect the society have towards the rule of law . various arguments could be presented and ruled in court .
we are pleased that the litigation has been resolved .
the sar government will work closely with the provisional legislative council on various important public issues in the months ahead . "
public opinions invited on profits tax review the government today ( tuesday ) issued a consultation document to invite opinions from interested parties as part of a comprehensive review of profits tax .
a government spokesman said : " the financial secretary proposed such a review in his $number budget speech with a view to making our taxation system and business environment more competitive .
" the consultation period will last six weeks , until $date .
interested parties can send their views to the finance bureau or by fax or through electronic mail ( e - mail address : info@fb.gcn.gov.hk ) .
" on the basis of the review , we will formulate proposals on profits tax for the $number budget . "
the document has been sent to provisional legislative council members , political parties , professional bodies , chambers of commerce , trade associations , academic institutions , etc. the document can be obtained from the inland revenue department 's office in revenue tower , wan chai or from the internet website : http://www.info.gov.hk/fb .
response by the director of legal aid in response to enquiries about a press report in an english newspaper today ( tuesday ) , the director of legal aid said that political orientation is not a consideration in choosing a solicitor or counsel to conduct litigation on behalf of their legal aid clients .
in determining the merits of an application for legal aid in complex and sensitive cases , he said that it was their practice to seek independent legal advice from counsel who is not known to have any political bend or preconceived views on any issue which may be relevant to the case for which legal aid is applied .
the practice is to ensure that the advice obtained is fair and independent , he said .
" just as justice must not only be done , but must be seen to be done , so we must not only act fairly in determining an application for legal aid but must be seen to act fairly . "
referring to remarks he made in an rthk radio programme yesterday , he stressed that his department has no discrimination or bias against lawyers with obvious political stances .
" we have hesitation in seeking advice from such lawyers not because their advice may be biased but because we may not be seen to act fairly . determining the merits of an application for legal aid is one thing and conducting litigation is another , " he said .
" when we come to assigning private solicitors or counsel to conduct litigation in legal aid cases , we do not preclude ourselves from assigning lawyers with obvious political stance .
" our main consideration is the suitability of the solicitor and / or counsel in terms of expertise and experience in any particular area of work . "
he said that earlier this year , the department reviewed its assignment system in conjunction with the legal aid services council .
revised guidelines were promulgated and came into effect on $date .
the guidelines seek to ensure an equitable and consistent approach in the selection of suitable solicitors or counsel .
the paramount consideration in the choice of lawyer remains the client 's interests .
these guidelines have been endorsed by the legal aid services council on which the hong kong law society and the hong kong bar association are represented .
temporary support for some buildings in marble road buildings department contractors have erected props to provide temporary supports to the balconies of a number of buildings in marble road in north point .
the props were erected underneath the balcony on $number floor of no. 1 p and balconies on $number floor of nos. 1 c , 1 f , 1 h , 1 j , 1 m and 1 n in marble road .
a spokesman for the buildings department said today ( tuesday ) that results of the laboratory tests on concrete samples revealed that severe carbonation had taken place in several locations .
" the concrete strength of the samples is also found to be lower than the designed strength , " the spokesman said .
he added that orders would shortly be served on building owners requiring them to carry out detailed investigation and necessary repairs to restore the safety of their buildings .
meanwhile , the value of imports continued to register year - on - year increase . these are shown in the external trade figures for $date released today ( tuesday ) by the census and statistics department .
the value of total exports ( comprising re - exports and domestic exports ) in $date increased by $number over a year earlier to $ $number .
within total exports , the value of re - exports increased by $number to $ $number , while the value of domestic exports increased by $number to $ $number .
the value of imports increased by $number in $date over a year earlier to $ $number .
as the value of total exports in $date was smaller than that of total imports , a visible trade deficit of $ $number , equivalent to $number of the value of imports , was recorded . this was nevertheless smaller than the corresponding deficit of $ $number , equivalent to $number of the value of imports , in $date .
for $number half of $number as a whole , the value of total exports increased by $number over the same period last year .
amongst this , the value of re - exports rose by $number , while that of domestic exports decreased by $number .
the value of imports showed an increase of $number .
over the same period , a visible trade deficit of $ $number , equivalent to $number of the value of imports , was recorded . this was larger than the deficit of $ $number , equivalent to $number of the value of imports , recorded in $number half of $number .
commenting on the latest trade statistics , a government secretariat spokesman said that exports showed a notably better performance in $date . in particular , re - exports registered a markedly accelerated growth from the average increase of $number recorded in $number five months of $number .
domestic exports rebounded to a positive growth in $date , from an average decline of $number in $number five months of this year .
however , this distinct pick - up was partly related to a low base of comparison in $date .
meanwhile , retained imports showed a more modest increase in $date , after increasing continuously in the past eight months .
a more detailed analysis of hong kong 's external trade for $date , by commodity and country , will be released in mid - $date .
producer price indices for manufacturing industries on sale the census and statistics department has for $number time released statistics on producer price indices for manufacturing industries in a newly - issued publication " quarterly producer price indices for manufacturing industries , $number quarter $number " .
the producer price indices , with $number as the base period , reflect changes in prices of local manufacturing output .
the statistics are useful for studies on industry cost trend , competitiveness , productivity and other types of analysis on industrial cost structure .
they are also constructive to both the government and the private sector in formulating economic policies .
the bilingual report in english and chinese contains time series data on quarterly producer price indices for manufacturing industries from $number quarter of $number to $number quarter of $number and annual indices $number .
it also includes charts depicting the price trends in manufacturing industries as well as the data collection methodology and computation of the producer price index .
copies of the report ( $ $number per copy ) are now available at the government publications sales centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong and the census and statistics department publications unit , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
codes of practice committee meeting open to the public members of the public are welcome to observe the proceedings of the meeting of the codes of practice committee of the broadcasting authority which will hold its next meeting on thursday ( $date ) .
chaired by mr clement tao kwok - lau , the meeting will discuss the regulation of indirect advertising in television sports programmes and amendments to provisions on tobacco advertisements in the codes of practice on advertising standards .
the meeting will take place at $number pm in the conference room of the television and entertainment licensing authority , $number floor , revenue tower , $number gloucester road , wan chai .
as seating capacity is limited , members of the public should ring $number $number to reserve a seat .
uk govt 's six - monthly report to parliament on hk commenting on the united kingdom government 's six - monthly report to parliament on hong kong , $date , a government spokesman said that the government of the hong kong special administrative region is committed to the full implementation of the joint declaration and the basic law under the concept of one country two systems , and hong kong people running hong kong .
the central people 's government is equally committed and this has publicly been reaffirmed by president jiang zemin and premier li peng .
on elections , the spokesman said that elections to $number hong kong special administrative region legislature will be open , fair and honest .
the overall framework for the elections has been devised having full regard to these considerations .
the elections will be held in $number quarter of $number .
on civil liberties , individual rights and freedoms will be protected in accordance with the law . the government will abide by our obligations under the international human rights treaties that apply to hong kong .
the spokesman also said the government is determined to protect the cornerstones of hong kong 's success . these include the rule of law , an independent judiciary , a level playing field , an honest , efficient and politically neutral civil service , a $number class economic infrastructure and the free flow of information .
buildings department 's views on garley building staircase the buildings department held the view that the staircase adjacent to a department store at garley building in yau ma tei referred by the fire services department was only an access serving $number floors and was not designed as a means of escape to comply with the buildings ordinance .
" as the other two staircases are adequate for fire escape purposes , replacement of the lift lobby door by a brick wall did not contravene the buildings ordinance , " the assistant director of buildings ( control & enforcement ) , mr leung shiu - hong , said today ( wednesday ) .
" therefore , no action was taken by the department at that time , " he said .
mr leung was speaking in response to comments by the chairman of the inquiry into the garley building fire , mr justice woo kwok - hing , that a complaint about alterations to a staircase at a department store in the building was not pursued properly by the staff of the buildings department .
as a means to improve communications between the buildings department and the fire services department , mr leung said positive replies indicating whether immediate enforcement would be taken or the case would be prioritized for future action had been in use since $date .
" to further enhance communications , the two departments have also taken steps to formulate a mechanism to review decisions made by buildings department staff on unauthorised building works , " he added .
mr leung also stressed that there were adequate guidelines and criteria to assist staff to assess alleged unauthorised building works in deciding the priority of enforcement action .
$number building plans approved in may the buildings department approved a total of $number building plans in may $number on hong kong island , $number in kowloon and $number in the new territories .
this compared with $number building plans approved for $date and $number for $date .
the approved plans in may covered $number for apartment and apartment / commercial developments , three for commercial developments , eight for factory and industrial developments , and $number for community services developments .
consent was given in the month for works to start on $number building projects , which will provide $number square metres of usable domestic floor area and $number square metres of usable non - domestic floor area on completion .
the department also issued $number occupation permits - - eight on hong kong island , $number in kowloon and $number in the new territories .
of the buildings certified for occupation in may , the usable floor area for domestic and non - domestic uses were $number square metres and $number square metres respectively .
the declared cost of new buildings completed in the month totalled about $ $number .
in addition , $number demolition consents involving $number buildings and structures were issued .
the department 's control and enforcement division received $number complaints against unauthorised building works in may , and issued $number removal orders on unauthorised works .
immigration officers on overseas training six immigration officers will receive training in the usa and europe starting in $date .
chief immigration officers lo man - hong and chow corrado will leave for the usa in the middle of $date to attend a four - month ' administrative development course ' at the university of california , berkeley .
chief immigration officers bok kwok - on , chan hon - hung and lo hin - cheung and senior immigration officer lee kwok - woo will leave for the united kingdom , the netherlands , italy , germany and france in the latter part of $date for a seven - week study visits with the overseas immigration services .
at a briefing before their departure , the director of immigration mrs regina ip pointed out that the immigration department attached great importance to enhancing professional training for its staff .
she also said that due to the growing complexity of immigration work , members of the service needed to be vigilant and alert .
mrs ip said she hoped the attachment would provide a good opportunity for the officers to broaden their horizon and to have a better understanding of the work of their counterparts .
rule of law , free trade vital for hong kong says ce the rule of law and the pursuit of free market policies are two 'critical success factors ' to the continued prosperity of hong kong , chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( thursday ) .
speaking at an australian chamber of commerce luncheon at the grand hyatt hotel , mr tung said $number month of the hong kong special administrative region had been very much 'business as usual ' .
" if people ask me : ' what has been the biggest change since $date $number ' i would have to answer : ' there has been no big change .
it is business , as usual , " said mr tung .
" there are demonstrations , as usual . law suits , as usual . media scrutiny , as usual .
and indeed , this is part of our culture .
" in fact , it would be unusual if this was not the case , since this is what we know and expect of hong kong and its people .
" what has changed is that hong kong has become a part of china and there is immense pride that this has happened .
there is immense confidence , too , that tomorrow will be even better . "
mr tung said today was somewhat of a small milestone for hong kong , since it marked the end of $number month of existence of the hong kong special administrative region .
he said the past month had been very important for hong kong because it had given hong kong people the chance to put into practice the concepts of ' one country , two systems ' and ' hong kong people ruling hong kong ' .
" before the establishment of the hong kong sar on $date $number , we could only talk about what we earnestly believed would continue to make hong kong a success , " he said .
" i often spoke about the safeguards for hong kong 's autonomy contained in the basic law . i often spoke about maintaining our lifestyle ; about the rule of law being upheld ; about a level playing field for all who do business here .
" i often stressed the importance of maintaining and building hong kong 's role as an international trade and finance centre and pursuing the tried and tested policies of free , open trade unencumbered by unnecessary rules and regulations .
" now , one month after the establishment of the hong kong sar , we are living the basic law , we are part of one country with two different social , economic and political systems and we hong kong people are , for $number time , masters of our own destiny .
" it has been a very busy month and one which i think has shown clearly that hong kong people have no reservations about openly expressing their views or exercising their rights and freedoms as guaranteed in the basic law . " mr tung told luncheon guests that the rule of law was essential to hong kong 's future .
" mark my words , the rule of law must be preserved by all means and it will be preserved by all means , " he said .
" all that i do , all the government does , must be and will be in accordance with the law because we know that the rule of law is essential to the continued success of hong kong .
" there are some who cast doubt on this and in this past month we have seen landmark challenges to the legitimacy of the provisional legislature and the very legitimacy of hong kong 's laws themselves .
" we are expecting another challenge soon concerning mainland - born children with hong kong parents .
" all of these challenges have been , and will continue to be , dealt with by our own courts .
" some friends have asked me : ' are you disappointed that the validity of hong kong 's laws , of hong kong 's provisional legislature have been challenged within these $number $number days ? '
" the answer is : ' no ' .
" why ?
because it shows the people of hong kong and those in the rest of the world that the rule of law is of paramount importance in hong kong .
" it shows that the hong kong sar government will argue its case in court , and abide by the court 's ruling . "
mr tung said legal challenges were part and parcel of the hong kong legal system and part and parcel of the rule of law itself .
he said more challenges may arise and that was only natural given the fact that the basic law had been in effect for just a month .
mr tung said another critical success factor for hong kong was its free market economy .
" in hong kong , we practice capitalism to the hilt . we let the market take the lead in setting its own parameters while government intervention is kept to a minimum , " he said .
" this approach seems to have worked well , if i may be allowed to understate the obvious .
" we are , after all , the world 's $number largest trading economy ; we have some of the world 's largest foreign currency reserves ; we have the busiest container port in the world and the busiest international air freight throughput .
" we have an annual gdp higher per capita than many western nations .
we have been consistently rated as the freest economy in the world by the us - based heritage foundation . "
mr tung said that in any free market economy there would always be a sector of the community which was left behind and the community had a duty to be caring and compassionate and to give such people a helping hand .
" for those who cannot help themselves we clearly have a responsibility to ensure they live a decent and dignified life , " he said .
" for those who can help themselves , we must provide them with on - the - job training or retraining so they can participate in , and benefit from , the fruits of our success .
we must help them to learn new skills to meet the demands of the market .
" one of the major reasons for our remarkable economic success is undoubtedly hong kong 's industrious , flexible and skilled workforce .
" this , combined with our entrepreneurial spirit , has enabled a gradual and smooth shift from a manufacturing - based economy to one based on the provision of services .
" this transformation of the economy would not have been possible unless employers and employees could react quickly and flexibly to prevailing or emerging market forces .
" in fact , employers and employees in hong kong have built generally harmonious relations over these past few decades , despite the tremendous changes in the economy .
" we rarely have serious labour disputes in hong kong and there are laws in place to protect employees .
the average number of working days lost through labour disputes in hong kong is only half - a - day for every thousand workers . this is certainly one of the lowest rates in the world . "
mr tung said there had been recent criticism of the sar government 's move to freeze several labour laws which were passed in a rush of legislation a few days before the handover .
the chief executive said he believed these laws were passed hastily , without proper consultation or careful consideration .
" my main concern is that these laws could hurt our competitiveness by bringing in unduly restrictive employment practices , terms and conditions , " he said .
" excessive protection and restrictive employment practices have failed elsewhere in the west and they have no place in hong kong .
" such practices will hurt hong kong in the long - term and in doing so they will hurt the very labour force they are designed to protect .
" while there is no doubt in my mind these laws would have far - reaching implications on hong kong 's economy , i also believe it is right for the community to make up its own mind by examining and assessing the true extent of their implications .
" yes , there is a need to protect the long - term interests of the workforce .
" there is also a need to ensure the long - term competitiveness of hong kong 's economy .
" i am sure that after careful consideration and consultation with all sides , we will be able to find the right way forward in maintaining hong kong 's economic vitality which in turn will mean more job opportunities for everyone .
" i believe in australia you would say that all we want is a 'fair go ' for the economy , for employees and employers . "
noting that almost $number australian companies were now doing business in hong kong , mr tung said the hksar was in fact the regional hub for $number other international companies .
he told luncheon guests that foreign investors and multi - national companies would continue to be welcomed to hong kong where there was a stable economic environment , a solid linked - exchange rate , a level - playing field , low taxes and excellent infrastructure .
" you can rest assured , also , that we will continue to look ahead for ways to improve our international appeal by upgrading our information infrastructure , reducing red tape , helping entrepreneurs develop high value - added industries and investing in human resources development , " he said .
" i am sure many of you are also looking towards the tremendous opportunities which will present themselves in the enormous markets within china .
" since the opening up of china 's economy $date there has been remarkable economic growth , unmatched by any other economies in recent history .
" if you have travelled to china you will see tremendous vitality and energy and you will begin to understand why , not too far into the $number century , china will have the world 's largest economy .
" and where else but hong kong to make your base ?
we already have the people , the skills , the management expertise , the knowledge , the language , the cultural and geographical links to provide international corporations with all they need for successful business in china . "
mr tung also pointed out that since hong kong had been separated from china for $number years , many people in hong kong were now involved in a steep learning process about their motherland .
" people in hong kong are beginning to learn more about our country , about our culture and our history and that is absolutely essential if we are to make a success of the ' one country , two systems ' concept , " he said .
" at the same time , we in hong kong remain very much international in our outlook .
we accept diversity of culture , we seek out new ideas and new practices .
" we take the best of the east and west and blend these ingredients to give us the recipe of success that is hong kong . "
tac publishes consultative paper on taxi licensing system the transport advisory committee (tac) working group on taxi policy review today ( thursday ) published a public consultation paper on the taxi licensing system .
earlier this year , members of the public expressed concerns about a sharp increase in taxi licence premiums , and asked for a review of the taxi licensing system . in $date the tac re - convened its working group to undertake the review .
the working group does not find any strong evidence to suggest that increases in taxi licence premiums have adversely affected taxi services .
the working group however considers it necessary to consult the views of the community before making any recommendations to the tac .
the tac chairman , dr cheng hon - kwan , said earlier that the aim of the consultation exercise should be to improve the quality of taxi services .
the consultation paper sets out a number of possible alternative taxi licensing systems proposed by the trade and other interested parties . both the tac and the working group however agreed to rule out the option of providing an unlimited supply of taxi licences which was not a realistic solution in hong kong .
furthermore , any changes to the licensing system should not affect the interests of the existing licence holders especially those driver - owners .
the two - month public consultation will last up to $date .
copies of the consultation paper are available at the transport department 's licensing offices and district offices .
the document is also accessible at transport department 's internet homepage ( http://www.info.gov.hk/td ) .
bd to investigate wall collapse incident the buildings department will conduct detailed investigation into the collapse of an external wall and a part of the roof slab of an industrial building at a demolition site in kwun tong road last ( wednesday ) night .
a spokesman for the department said today ( thursday ) that the investigation would focus on two aspects .
" we have to find out whether the demolition works was carried out in accordance with the terms specified in the method statement approved by the building authority and whether there is a case for prosecution , " the spokesman said .
" the investigation will be completed in about two months , " he said .
" results of the investigation will enable us to understand the real cause of the collapse and how demolition practice can be improved in future , " he added .
following the incident at $number pm last night , buildings department staff were on site to carry out emergency action and to conduct initial investigation .
as the collapsed debris , covering part of the choi hung interchange and two lanes of kwun tong road , caused traffic disruption , the department 's staff worked overnight in directing the site contractor to ensure the safety of the building while the debris was cleared to enable the road to be re - opened early this morning .
monetary statistics for $date according to statistics published today ( thursday ) by the hong kong monetary authority , deposits , loans and advances increased during $date .
deposits - - - - - - - - total deposits rose by $number in $date , having increased by $number in $date the rise was mainly contributed by a $number surge in hk $ deposits , which more than compensated for the fall of $number in foreign currency deposits .
during the month , hk $ demand deposits fell by $number , after declining by $number in $date on the other hand , savings deposits were up by $number , following a sharp increase of $number in the previous month , while time deposits grew markedly by $number , having increased by $number .
us $ foreign currency deposits fell further by $number in $date , after decreasing by $number in the previous month , while non - us $ foreign currency deposits declined slightly by $number , reversing the rise of $number in $date loans and advances - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - the growth of total loans and advances moderated to $number in $date , from $number in $date during the month , domestic credit expanded more slowly by $number , as the slowdown in other local loans more than offset the pick - up in loans for trade financing .
meanwhile , offshore loans grew by $number , having increased strongly by $number in the previous month .
analyzed by currency , hk $ loans rose by $number in $date while foreign currency loans increased by $number .
as the expansion of hk $ loans was slower than that of hk $ deposits , the hk $ loan - to - deposit ratio fell to $number at end - $date , from $number at end - $date
quarterly analysis of loans for use in hong kong by major economic sector - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - domestic credit grew at a rapid pace in the $date quarter , although somewhat slower than the $date quarter .
for the $date quarter as a whole , residential mortgage loans and other property - related lending rose by $number and $number respectively , along with the buoyant property market , while loans to stock - brokers expanded by a marked $number , fuelled by the active stock market .
in line with the pick - up of retail sales , loans for wholesale and retail trade rose further by $number , after increasing by $number in the preceding quarter .
while loans for trade financing also rebounded by $number , having dropped by $number in the $date quarter , lending to the manufacturing sector remained subdued , rising by a modest $number .
money supply - - - - - - - - - - - - hk $ m1 fell by $number in $date , as the decline in hk $ demand deposits more than offset the $number rise in currency held by the public .
hk $ m2 and hk $ m3 both expanded by $number during the month .
compared to a year earlier , hk $ m1 , hk $ m2 and hk $ m3 rose by $number , $number and $number respectively .
new booklet to promote cedaw the home affairs bureau (hab) has published a new and attractive booklet to promote public understanding of the united nations convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (cedaw) .
a spokesman for hab said today ( thursday ) : " the easy - to - read booklet carries in full the chinese text of the convention with colourful illustrations .
it is a new initiative of the government to make the public aware of the provisions of the convention and their application in hong kong . "
" the cedaw , extended to hong kong in $date last year , aims to eradicate discrimination against women , protect their rights and provide for their interest , " the spokesman added .
copies of the booklet are now available at district offices and the marketing office of the information services department on the $number floor , siu on centre , $number lockhart road , wan chai .
free copies will be distributed to women 's groups , public libraries , primary and secondary schools and tertiary educational institutions .
new device to test vehicle smoke emissions the environmental protection department (epd) will adopt a more effective device to test smoky vehicles during a three - month pilot scheme starting next month .
during the pilot scheme , a chassis dynamometer will be used to test light duty diesel vehicles of $number tonnes and below that are caught smoky and have been reported repeatedly for emitting excessive smoke in the past six months .
acting principal environmental protection officer , mr mok wai - chuen , said today ( thursday ) that the pilot scheme could help epd evaluate the feasibility of adopting the new test in the smoky vehicle control programme .
" it also allows the transport trades and the vehicle service trades to get $number hand experience of the new method . "
" if the pilot scheme is successful , we intend to extend the new method to test all light duty vehicles . "
a smoke test done with a chassis dynamometer is better than the current testing method because it can simulate on - road loaded conditions during the test .
" vehicles not properly maintained will not be able to pass the new test . hence it can help ensure that vehicles are properly repaired and tuned to prevent smoke emission , " mr mok said .
the department is planning to conduct a similar pilot scheme next year for diesel vehicles $number tonnes .
economic services bureau 's homepage launched members of the public can now access information relating to the economic infrastructure of hong kong through the homepage to be set up by the economic services bureau on the internet tomorrow ( friday ) .
the homepage depicts the work and objectives of the economic services bureau on the various responsibilities under its purview , including agriculture and fisheries , civil aviation , energy supplies , financial monitoring of public utilities , maritime services , meteorological services , port development , postal services , protection of endangered species , telecommunications and tourism .
press releases and reference papers relating to the bureau 's policy responsibilities are also put on the homepage .
the homepage will be updated regularly to provide internet users with the latest information .
the address of the homepage is http://www.info.gov.hk/esb .
director of lands visits injured staff the director of lands , mr robert pope , visited a land executive at tuen mun hospital this ( thursday ) afternoon .
the land executive was seriously injured by some assailants in the lobby of the yuen long government offices yesterday afternoon .
i will do everything i can to help them overcome the difficulties they are facing , " mr pope said .
" while the police are investigating the cause for the attack , i would like to express my concern that such acts of violence could have a serious effect on the morale and work of my staff . they should be stopped immediately , " he added .
new sale outlets for government tunnels / tmca toll tickets the transport department announces that toll tickets for the four government tunnels and tsing ma control area (tmca) will be available for sale at $number designated mobil stations from tomorrow ( friday ) .
these mobil service stations are : hong kong island (a) victoria road mobil station ; (b) pok fu lam road mobil station ; (c) aberdeen mobil station ( tung sing road ) ; (d) sing woo road mobil station ; and (e) arsenal street mobil station .
new territories (a) tai wai mobil station ( chik chuen street ) ; (b) sheung shui mobil station ( junction of san fung avenue and jockey club road ) ; (c) ping shan mobil station ( tong yan san tsuen road ) ; (d) tuen mun mobil station ( beside tuen mun new town plaza ) ; (e) tsing yi mobil station ( opposite may fair garden ) ; and (f) tseung kwan o mobil station ( po lam road north ) .
toll tickets are at present available for sale at the following seven government car parks : (a) garden road car park ; (b) rumsey street car park ; (c) shau kei wan car park ; (d) tin hau car park ; (e) yau ma tei car park ; (f) sheung fung street car park ; and (g) tsuen wan mtr station car park .
other sales outlets included : (a) adams parking head office ( cheung sha wan ) ; (b) manhattan centre car park ( kwai chung ) ; (c) po lun street car park ; (d) shatin $number plaza car park ; (e) tung cheung street car park ; (f) chinachem century tower car park ( wan chai ) ; and (g) java road car park .
two sets of special stamps to be issued the acting postmaster general , mr p c luk , announced today ( thursday ) that two sets of special stamps will be issued later this year .
the themes of the stamps are the " $number world bank group / international monetary fund (imf) annual meetings " and " hong kong seashells " .
the " $number world bank group / imf annual meetings " set , to be issued on $date , is designed by mr colin tillyer and printed by ashton - potter ( canada ) ltd .
the " hong kong seashells " set , to be issued on $date , is designed by mr ken li and printed by joh enschede of the netherlands .
there will be four denominations for each set : $ $number , $ $number , $ $number and $ $number . these stamps will be printed in panes of $number stamps . no souvenir sheets will be issued .
" these exciting new issues will add fun to the new collectors who begin collecting hong kong stamps since the $date special issue , " said mr luk .
further details of the issue of the special stamps will be announced closer to the time .
ce thanks civil servants for good work the chief executive of the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) , mr tung chee hwa , today ( thursday ) thanked civil servants who had worked exceedingly hard in making handover - related events successful . speaking at a reception to celebrate the success of the events , mr tung stressed that smooth running of the handover ceremony , inauguration ceremony , celebration ceremony and reception for the establishment of the hksar signified a good beginning of the special administrative region .
mr tung said the contribution and hard work of all those involved would be recorded in history . their excellent performance won high praise from chinese leaders and international guests .
about $number civil servants attended the reception held at government house .
new arrival retrainees share experience with dha the director of home affairs , mrs shelley lau , today ( friday ) visited a group of new arrival retrainees from the mainland who were taking a job search skills course to share their experience in joining the retraining programme and in seeking jobs in hong kong .
speaking after her visit to the hong kong college of technology 's retraining resource centre , mrs lau said she was most delighted to see that new arrivals are now eligible to apply for any retraining course or programme funded by the employees retraining board .
" the government is all along concerned about the difficulties faced by new arrivals in securing employment in hong kong . owing to their working experience and educational background , some of them may not possess the skills or qualifications required by the local labour market .
" thus , the government has extended the employees retraining scheme to cover new arrivals from $date this year . funds have also been set aside in this financial year to provide more training places to cater for the retraining needs of an estimated $number new arrivals , " she said .
she reassured the group that the home affairs department would continue to identify the needs of new arrivals and explore new measures to meet their needs .
" today 's visit is useful in helping us to better understand the needs and feelings of new arrivals , and in gathering views from the retraining centre on the provision of services for them , " mrs lau said .
she was briefed by the executive director of the employees retraining board , mr chow tung - shan , and the principal ( designate ) of the hong kong college of technology , mr chan cheuk - hay , on the range of services provided at the retraining centre .
law on " matching procedures " takes effect today section $number of the personal data ( privacy ) ordinance , which provides for control on " matching procedures " , commences operation today ( friday ) .
a spokesman for the home affairs bureau said that the commencement notice signed by the secretary for home affairs was published in the gazette today .
a " matching procedure " is a procedure whereby one set of personal data collected in respect of $number or more individuals for one or more purposes are compared or verified , by automated means , against another set of personal data collected for a different purpose for the purpose of taking adverse action against any of the individuals .
" as from today , a data user may only carry out a matching procedure which has been approved by the privacy commissioner for personal data , unless each individual who is the subject of that procedure has signified his agreement for the procedure to be carried out , " the spokesman said .
the core provisions of the ordinance came into effect on $date . the commencement of section $number , however , was deferred in order to allow time for specific guidance to be issued to data users on its requirements and for them to seek approval from the privacy commissioner .
" in appointing $date as the commencement date for section $number , the secretary for home affairs has accepted the privacy commissioner 's recommendation in favour of this date taking account of the fact that reasonable time has been allowed for data users to obtain the necessary approval from the privacy commissioner , " the spokesman said .
the spokesman added that the privacy commissioner had approved $number applications for matching procedures - nine from government departments and three from public bodies .
upgrading works on $number slopes soon begin the civil engineering department will carry out upgrading works on $number slopes and retaining walls throughout the territory under the accelerated landslip preventive measures (lpm) programme .
the works will start in early $date for completion in $number months .
of the $number slopes and retaining walls , $number are under the maintenance of highways department , four under the architectural services department and six on unallocated government land .
under the accelerated lpm programme launched in $date , upgrading works on selected government - owned man - made slopes in the $number catalogue of slopes will be speeded up .
acting chief geotechnical engineer , mr chan ngan - fai , today ( friday ) said that six contracts involving the upgrading of $number slopes and retaining walls would be awarded this year .
" studies of private slopes and retaining walls have also been accelerated considerably and $number slopes will be studied in the current fiscal year , " mr chan said .
" if a slope or a retaining wall is identified by the studies to be not up to the required standards , a statutory notice will be sent by the buildings department requiring owners to carry out upgrading works , " he added .
land registry to provide computerised & integrated services the land registry will establish a fully computerised and integrated land registration and search system $date , the land registrar , mr tony cooper , announced today ( friday ) .
speaking at the land registry trading fund 's $number anniversary reception , mr cooper said that the system would offer even more convenient , speedy and cost effective services , including a centralised registration service and a " one - stop " search service without geographic restriction .
" we also propose to move towards a land titles registration system . a strategic change plan will be drawn up to meet these major changes to provide even better services to customers , " he said .
the land registry , stepping into its $number year of operation as a trading fund department , today celebrated another successful year in delivering quality service to customers .
reviewing the significant progress in various projects in the past year , mr cooper said : " there have been several important technical and service improvements in the land registry that have enabled us to improve the speed , efficiency and accuracy of services to our customers . "
he said : " the document imaging system , launched in $date , involves the conversion of nearly a quarter of $number pages of old documents into electronic images .
" that means , $number years of paper records stored in $number square metres of space in $number different offices throughout the territory are converted into optical images stored in one room . "
mr cooper continued : " with the completion of the computerisation of land registers in the new territories (nt) and the imaging of nt land documents , the direct access services subscribers can have access to all land registers through computer terminals in their own offices . they can also place remote orders for copies of land documents and to obtain imaged documents through facsimile . "
turning to cost - effectiveness , mr cooper said : " we have implemented these substantial improvements with minimal disruption to normal services , without increasing staff numbers - indeed , productivity gains have enabled us to reduce staff - and without increasing our fees this year . "
also speaking at the reception , the secretary for planning , environment and lands , mr bowen leung , said the land registry has been successfully transformed from a traditional vote - funded government department into a modernised and dynamic trading fund department .
" this transition reflects not just sensible investment in information technology systems , but a lot of hard work to keep down costs and at the same time improve services , " mr leung said .
the land registry also announced its new performance pledge for $number . details of the performance targets are set out in a pamphlet published today .
copies of the pamphlet are available at all offices of the registry and the district offices of the home affairs department .
reclamation works for tseung kwan o new town extension the government plans to reclaim an area of $number hectares of foreshore and seabed opposite tai wan san tsuen in tseung kwan o to provide land for the continuing development of the town centre .
the works will include dredging and filling works to provide land for government , institution and community purposes .
the project will begin in $date for completion in $number months .
a notice showing the extent of the affected area was published in the gazette today ( friday ) .
any person who considers that his interest , right or easement in or over the foreshore and seabed involved will be affected may send a written objection to the director of lands before $date .
the notice together with a related plan can be seen at the lands department 's survey and mapping office , $number floor , murray building , garden road , hong kong and at the sai kung district office , $number floor , sai kung government offices building , $number chan man street , sai kung .
landscape works for north lantau highway the highways department today ( friday ) invites tenders for landscape works for north lantau highway .
the project will cover the $number - kilometre highway from kei tau kok to tsing chau wan and its associated utility service road on lantau island .
the works comprise soft and hard landscape works at road verges , reclaimed areas , embankments and cut slopes along the highway and service road .
the works are scheduled to commence in $date and complete by end $number .
this will follow by a $number - month establishment period .
details of the works were published in the gazette today .
the department has commissioned mott macdonald hong kong ltd to design the project and supervise its construction .
tender forms are obtainable from mr a j f smith of mott macdonald hong kong ltd at $number floor , hopewell centre , $number queen 's road east , hong kong .
completed tenders must be sealed and clearly marked on the envelope with tender reference and addressed to " the chairman , central tender board " .
they should be placed in the government secretariat tender box in the lift lobby on the lower ground floor , east wing , central government offices , lower albert road , hong kong on or before noon , $date .
late submissions will not be accepted .
works will include the construction of the tsui lam fresh water pumping station .
about $number kilometres of ductile iron and mild steel fresh water mains , ranging $number millimetres in diameter , will be laid along po lam road and tsui lam road .
the project is part of the department 's programme to provide additional water transfer facilities to the east kowloon areas and to extend fresh and salt water supplies to the proposed housing developments on site platforms in po lam road and lee on road .
the works are expected to begin in $date for completion in $number months .
site formation works for tai o development the territory development department will carry out site formation works in tai o to facilitate development in the area .
the works comprise the construction of a $number - metre riverwall , $number - metre long roads of $number metres wide , related footpaths , public car parking spaces , and sewage and storm water drainage systems .
the construction is part of the tai o development , package $number , stage ii project .
works will begin in $date for completion in three years .
details of the proposed works are published in the gazette today ( friday ) .
treated water supply for tap mun villagers the government plans to install a watermain to provide treated fresh water supply to some $number villagers of the tap mun new fishermen 's village in sai kung .
the watermain , measuring $number millimetres in diameter and $number metres in length , will be laid one metre beneath a foreshore and seabed area of $number hectares in the south channel , or tap mun hau .
works will begin later this year for completion in late $number .
the extent of the area affected is described in a notice of authorisation published in the gazette today ( friday ) .
any person who considers that his interest , right or easement in or over the foreshore and seabed involved will be affected may send a written claim for compensation to the director of lands before $date .
the notice together with a related plan can be seen at the lands department 's survey and mapping office , $number floor , murray building , garden road , hong kong and at the tai po district office , ground floor , tai po government offices building , ting kok road , tai po .
list of environmental reports released the environmental protection department (epd) today ( friday ) released a list of environmental impact assessment (eia) reports of major development projects completed in the last quarter as well as a list of on - going major eias .
a complete list of all ongoing eias is available for public inspection at the environmental resources centre at $number queen 's road east , wan chai , hong kong .
following is a list of major eia reports completed in the last quarter : $number .
feasibility study for route $number from west kowloon to sha tin ( dual $number - lane scheme ) ( highways department ) $number .
quarry bay congestion relief works ( mass transit railway corporation ) $number .
road d15 linking lok shun path and tai po road ( territory development department ) $number .
highway between shap pat heung interchange and pok oi interchange - pok oi flyover and remaining works ( highways department ) the final reports and executive summaries of completed eias are available for inspection at the epd library , $number floor , revenue tower , wan chai , hong kong .
the project proponents are also required to deposit the eia reports at each of the public reference libraries ; public enquiry centre of relevant district office ( s ) ; and the provisional legislative council secretariat library .
other on - going major eias include : $number . main drainage channel for fanling , sheung shui and hinterland ( civil engineering department ) $number .
sham tseng link feasibility study ( highways department ) $number .
sand extraction and backfilling of eastern waters marine borrow areas ( civil engineering department ) $number .
central reclamation , phase iii ( territory development department ) $number . mtr tseung kwan o extension ( mass transit railway corporation ) $number .
aviation fuel pipeline ( airport authority ) $number .
central / wan chai bypass and island eastern corridor link ( highways department ) $number .
backfilling of marine borrow area at east tung lung chau ( civil engineering department ) $number .
tsuen wan bay further reclamation ( territory development department ) $number .
kowloon point development feasibility study ( territory development department ) $number .
kennedy road improvement and queen 's lines link ( highways department ) $number . south east kowloon development feasibility study ( territory development department ) $number .
trunk road t7 in ma on shan ( territory development department ) $number .
feasibility study for tseung kwan o port development at area $number ( territory development department ) $number .
feasibility study on the alternative alignment for the western coast road , tseung kwan o ( territory development department ) $number .
yuen long bypass floodway ( territory development department ) $number .
feasibility study for development of pak shek kok area ( territory development department ) $number .
eia for the proposed waste - to - energy incineration facilities ( environmental protection department ) $number .
eia on hec 's proposed new $number mw power station ( hong kong electricity co ltd ) $number .
investigation of improvements to island eastern corridor section between north point interchange and sai wan ho ( highways department ) $number . engineering infrastructure ( roads and drains ) at town centre central , tseung kwan o ( territory development department ) $number .
strategic sewage disposal scheme environmental impact assessment study ( environmental protection department ) $number .
remaining development in tung chung and tai ho - comprehensive feasibility study ( territory development department ) $number .
road p2 connecting the tseung kwan o town centre and western coast road ( territory development department ) $number .
dualling of hiram 's highway between clear water bay road and marina cove and improvements to local access to ho chung ( highways department ) $number . planning and engineering feasibility study for development at anderson road ( civil engineering department ) $number .
investigation assignment for route $number from west kowloon to sha tin ( dual $number - lane scheme ) ( highways department ) $number .
route $number between tsing yi and cheung sha wan ( highways department ) $number .
kcrc west rail ( kowloon canton railway corporation ) end
calls for special site precautions contractors should keep an eye on the weather conditions and take special safety precautions on construction sites to cope with weather changes .
a labour department spokesman said today ( friday ) that as a tropical storm signal has been hoisted , strong wind and heavy rain would cause fall of objects , collapse of scaffolds , cave - in of excavations and electrocutions on sites .
" when the weather turns bad , cranes should stop operating as their stability could be affected . " all lifting appliances and scaffolds should be further strengthened with wall - ties , ballasting , lashing or guy ropes , " he said .
good house - keeping , proper stacking of materials , protection of electrical installations and equipment are also necessary in bad weather .
the spokesman said that site conditions including plants on the site should be thoroughly checked after the tropical storm had subsided .
" it is also the responsibility of the contractor to carry out remedial work where necessary and ensure the site is safe before resuming normal operation . " if remedial work is required , the contractor should also adopt a safe system of work and instruct the workers on details of the system , " he said .
under the factories and industrial undertakings ordinance , employers are required to provide a safe plant and a safe system of work for their employees .
studies recommended services for youths at risk two types of services for youths at risk have been recommended in connection with two separate researches as measures to tackle the problems of young people at risk and to prevent juvenile crime , an sar government spokesman said today ( saturday ) .
the standing committee on young offenders (scoyo) of the fight crime committee (fcc) has recently considered the findings of the research on " juvenile gangs and runaway youths " and the " effectiveness of rehabilitation programmes for young offenders " .
$number research was commissioned jointly with the working group on services for youths at risk , chaired by the director of social welfare .
it recommended , among other matters , a pilot scheme for the setting up of " youth mobile teams " to cater for those young people who hang out at night and may be exposed to various bad influences .
the spokesman said that the social welfare department has applied for about $ $number from the lotteries fund to run two youth mobile teams for two years .
it is expected that the pilot scheme would commence later this year . the effectiveness of the scheme will be evaluated by an independent body .
under the scheme , which will operate from $number pm to $number am , social workers would work to prevent the so - called young night - drifters from falling prey to undesirable elements or infringing the law .
" members of the mobile teams will use a van to visit popular gathering places of the young night - drifters .
" they will provide on - the - spot crisis intervention such as escorting night - drifters to their homes or temporary shelters and referring them to youth services .
" they will also encourage and make arrangements for the youths to take part in mainstream youth services such as those offered by children and youth centres .
" the proposal has the support of the social welfare advisory committee and the coordinating committee for the welfare of children and youth at risk , " he said .
as for the " research on the effectiveness of rehabilitation programmes for young offenders " , the study has incorporated the findings and recommendations of the independent " evaluation on the implementation of the review report on children and youth centre services " on a pilot community support service scheme (csss) for youths at risk .
the study recognised the effectiveness of the scheme and recommended that it should be operated on a permanent basis .
the spokesman noted that the csss has been operated by the social welfare department and non - government organisations on a pilot basis for over two years .
" the scheme , which serves young people put on probation order or school order and those cautioned under the police superintendents ' discretion scheme , provides structured programmes and intensively supervised activities for youths to reintegrate them into mainstream education or work force and thus minimising the likelihood of their turning to crime . "
as for other recommendations in the two research reports , he said that the government would examine those in detail , with a view to formulating specific courses of action to improve services for youths at risk and young offenders .
water discharged from shenzhen reservoir hong kong has been informed by the shenzhen authority that water would be discharged from the shenzhen reservoir from $number pm today ( saturday ) .
there may be a risk of flooding in some parts of the new territories .
various government departments , including district office ( north ) , drainage services , police , fire services , water supplies and social welfare have been informed in order that they can take any necessary measures .
the district office ( north ) is making arrangements to inform local residents of the appropriate actions to take .
contracts for overseas employment must be observed the labour department reminded the public that every contract for employment outside hong kong must be signed by the employer or his representative and the employee before the employee leaves hong kong .
the contract must contain all the particulars required by the contracts for employment outside hong kong ordinance to define the rights and obligations of both parties and be presented to the commissioner for labour for attestation before the employee 's departure .
labour officer ( external employment service ) , mrs lam chow lai - wah , said today ( saturday ) that the ordinance applied to all contracts entered into in hong kong by manual employees and those non - manual employees with monthly wages not exceeding $ $number who were employed to work outside hong kong by employers who were not in hong kong and were not running a business locally .
" an employer or his agent will commit an offence if he fails to enter into a written contract or present the written contract for attestation by the commissioner before the employee leaves hong kong .
" moreover , a person will commit an offence if he induces an employee to enter into a contract which does not comply with the ordinance or leave hong kong to take up employment before the contract is attested , " she explained .
the maximum penalty for each offence is $ $number .
enquiries on employment outside hong kong may be made to the department 's external employment service on $number $number or $number $number .
all hk seafarers must be re - registered all hong kong seafarers are today ( saturday ) reminded that they must be re - registered under the merchant shipping ( seafarers ) ordinance on or before $date if they want to continue serving in the seafaring profession .
a marine department spokesman said that the merchant shipping ( seafarers ) ordinance ( cap . $number ) which replaced the merchant shipping ( recruiting of seamen ) ordinance ( cap . $number ) has come into operation since $date .
under the merchant shipping ( seafarers ) ordinance , all hong kong seafarers registered under the merchant shipping ( recruiting of seamen ) ordinance and those unregistered seafarers now being employed on coastal - going ships must be re - registered if they intend to continue serving in the seafaring profession . the seafarers should apply to the superintendent , mercantile marine office , marine department for their re - registration on or before $date .
if they are employed on foreign - going ships , they should apply within one month after being discharged from a ship returning to hong kong .
since the re - registration started in $date , $number hong kong seafarers have applied for the re - registration .
the spokesman stressed that the re - registration is a must to keep the seafarers in the profession .
" hong kong seafarers who have not yet been re - registered should do so within the remaining time , " the spokesman added .
he said : " employers and families of hong kong seafarers are advised to inform hong kong seafarers of the changes if they are now serving on board foreign - going ships . "
further enquiries on the re - registration of hong kong seafarers can be made at the mercantile marine office of the marine department on telephone $number $number during office hours .
water cut in pat heung and tai po fresh and flushing water supply to some premises in pat heung will be suspended from $number pm on tuesday ( $date ) to $number am the following day for waste detection work on watermains .
the suspension will affect all premises along fan kam road between a kung tin and ta shek wu , including a kung tin , lai tau tsim , ta shek wu shek tong , ta shek wu and the fire services training school .
meanwhile , salt water supply to all premises in tai po will be suspended between $number am and $number pm on $date .
victor moves further away from hong kong severe tropical storm victor is moving away from hong kong after scoring a direct hit on hong kong last ( saturday ) night .
at $number am the storm was moving further into guangdong province , being $number kilometres north - northwest of hong kong .
the no $number typhoon signal was lowered at $number pm last night and replaced by the no $number signal . the no $number signal was lowered at $number am this ( sunday ) morning and replaced by the no $number strong wind signal .
one person has lost his life during $number tropical cyclone this year .
the victim was among three people who fell into the water at stanley at $number pm and were plucked from the sea by fire services officers .
two were taken to the eastern hospital where one of them , a man aged $number , was pronounced dead on arrival and the other was admitted and is now in satisfactory condition .
$number person was uninjured .
the death , the only fatality reported so far as a result of the weather , came as typhoon victor passed over hong kong and then weakened into a severe tropical storm .
the typhoon passed between hong kong island and lantau island $number pm then crossed the tsing ma bridge before making landfall near tsuen wan .
in adjoining shenzhen , water was released from the shenzhen reservoir $number pm . hong kong was informed by the shenzhen authority beforehand .
the hospital authority reported that $number people had sought treatment for typhoon - related injuries since noon , when the no $number signal was $number hoisted .
the injured $number males and $number females - ranged in age from two to $number with $number treated and discharged and $number admitted .
at on lung village , maipo , a woman was rescued uninjured from floods by firemen shortly before $number pm .
at hong kong international airport there has been major disruption , with $number flights affected .
some $number incoming flights were cancelled , $number delayed and $number diverted .
for departures , $number flights were cancelled and $number delayed .
owing to tree fall , the slow lane of tuen mun road kowloon - bound near hung kiu and fan kam road outside lin tong mei in sheung shui have been closed .
lai ping road near the shatin sewage treatment works has been closed due to the possibility of a landslip .
traffic is partially closed on kwai fuk road and taxaco road , kwai chung due to a scaffolding collapse .
two people were hurt in a traffic accident at yuen long .
they were taken to the prince of wales hospital and both are in satisfactory condition .
in kowloon : * collapsed walls halted traffic on kai hing road ( kowloon - bound ) and at kwun tong road ( westbound near ngau tau kok mtr ) while collapsed scaffolding partially closed pau chung street and san shan road , kowloon city .
the carriageway of nathan road southbound near jordan road was closed to traffic because of a dangerous signboard .
owing to tree fall , traffic on wylie road between ho man tin hill road and waterloo road was partially closed .
on hong kong island : * two east - bound lanes of wong chuk hang road were closed near the grantham hospital due to dangerous scaffolding , while cooper road , happy valley , and island road were closed due to a tree fall as were shouson hill road , aberdeen and the shek o - bound tai tam road .
canal road west between sharp street west and hennessy road was closed to traffic because of a dangerous signboard .
on hong kong island , there were two reports of flooding , one reported landslip , two reports of dangerous signboards or concrete plaster and three reports of dangerous scaffoldings and canopies .
in kowloon , there were seven reports of flooding , $number reports of dangerous signboards or concrete plaster and six reports of dangerous scaffoldings or canopies .
in the new territories there were $number reports of flooding , three reported landslips , three reports of dangerous signboards or concrete plaster and one reported dangerous scaffolding .
there have been $number reports of fallen trees in hong kong ( $number ) , kowloon ( $number ) and the new territories ( $number ) .
typhoon shelters at kwun tong , yaumatei , to kwa wan and shau kei wan are full , while tuen mun typhoon shelter is nearly full .
the home affairs department has opened $number shelters in various districts . early this morning , $number people were still using the facilities .
swd gives assistance to typhoon victims a total of $number people affected by typhoon victor have been provided assistance by the social welfare department .
$number of them were on hong kong island , $number were in kowloon and $number were in the new territories .
the victims were given hot meals , and some were also offered relief articles .
result of applications for student financial assistance some $number tertiary students applying for financial assistance under the local student finance scheme (lsfs) for the $number academic year have been informed of the results of their applications .
it is anticipated that application results of $number more students will be known within the next few weeks , a spokesman for the student financial assistance agency announced today ( sunday ) .
the spokesman noted that a total of $number applications for financial assistance in the $number academic year had been received so far and the result would normally be issued within three months from the date of receipt of application .
" however , for those applicants who are required to provide additional information , the processing time of their applications will be longer , " he added .
the spokesman urged those applicants who had not yet provided the additional information or / and supplementary documents as requested by the agency should respond promptly .
" applicants should ensure that the information provided are true and complete . " otherwise , their applications might be rejected and they could be prosecuted under the theft ordinance , " he explained .
the spokesman noted that with effect from the $number academic year , the financial assistance offered under the lsfs would be paid to the applicants in two equal instalments to the nearest dollar .
$number instalment will be credited into the applicants ' designated bank accounts as detailed in the notification of result . $number instalment ( covering all the remaining balance ) will be credited to their designated bank accounts in $date or $date .
sexual abuse teaching kits for schools education for the prevention of sexual abuse , harassment and violence will receive a boost with the production of $number comprehensive set of teaching packages in chinese on this topic .
the new education department project , enabled by a $ $number donation by the hong kong jockey club charities trust , will see the production of three teaching kits for kindergartens , primary and secondary schools respectively . a total of $number kits will be produced .
the fight crime committee has reported an increasing number of cases of indecent assaults . the secretary for security called for more sexual education for the young to give them a proper perspective on sex and to educate them to better protect themselves .
the teaching packages to be produced will be multi - media , each comprising a teacher 's guide , activity sheets ( including games for kindergarten and primary levels ) , information sheets and a videotape .
the kits will be distributed to all kindergartens , primary and secondary schools , the teaching resource centres of the education department and government departments and non - government organisations engaged in sex education .
the education department 's advisory inspectorate will also distribute the kits to teachers participating in the department 's regular sex education courses and seminars on sexual abuse , harassment and violence .
the department will set up a working group in $date to steer and monitor production of the teaching packages , which are expected to be ready in $date .
epd 's mobile environmental resource centre in a proactive effort to promote environmental awareness , the environmental protection department (epd) is to set up a mobile environmental resource centre to reach out to schools and housing estates in all districts .
the mobile environmental resource centre , based on a $number - tonne lorry , is to be funded under a $ $number grant from the hong kong jockey club charities trust .
when it is ready for action in $number months ' time , the mobile environmental resource centre will be equipped with environmental publications , cd roms , videos , computers , a trilingual touch - screen environmental information system and display board on different aspects concerning environmental protection .
in addition to the above resource materials , the mobile centre will serve as a mini - library .
access for the disabled will be installed .
in order to make the best use of the mobile centre and to enhance environmental education , talks , environmental games and other activities will be arranged during these visits .
epd 's community relations officer , ms mabel mak , said : " with the hong kong jockey club charities trust 's support , we are now better able to reach out to the public and provide them with easy access to environmental information . "
" the major targets are kindergartens , schools , housing estates and community centres in all districts of the territory . it is expected that some $number people will be served annually . "
at present , ms mak said , there are two environmental resource centres from which the public can gain access to environmental information .
" the resource centre in the old wan chai post office building has attracted $number visitors since its opening in $date and $number one in tak wah park , tsuen wan was partially opened in $date and is expected to be as popular as the wan chai one . "
" however , residents outside these two districts may find it inconvenient to visit these environmental resource centres and the new mobile centre will help solve this problem , " she said .
secondary $number admission procedure $number begins on thursday the five - stage secondary $number admission procedure will begin on thursday ( $date ) , date of release of the hong kong certificate of education examination (hkcee) results .
a total of $number s6 places in government , aided or bought - place secondary schools will be available for application .
students with $number points or more from the best six subjects in one sitting of the hkcee should apply to their own or linked schools on $date ( stage i ) or apply to other schools on $date ( stage ii ) .
students who satisfy the minimum a - level entry requirements should apply to their own or linked schools on $date ( stage iii ) or apply to other schools on $date ( stage iv ) .
students should note that stage iii ( $date ) this year falls on a saturday and is of half - day operation .
eligible students should apply to their own or linked schools before $number am . application results will be announced before $number pm on the same day .
successful applicants should register with school immediately . application for s6 places and registration of students in stages i to iv will be done within the same day .
students from the following types of schools are reminded to find out from their own schools what their linked school is : * schools which do not operate s6 classes * schools which operate only one stream of s6 * private schools * evening schools to facilitate students apply to other schools , the education department will continue to provide the media with lists of schools having s6 vacancies for stage ii ( $date ) and stage iv ( $date ) .
some newspapers have indicated that they will publish the lists on these two days . the lists will also be displayed at all district education offices at the same time .
a perforated s6 admission slip will be attached to the hkcee results notice . it should be noted that once a student accepts the offer of an s6 place , the admission slip will be detached and retained by the admitting school as a record of admission .
therefore students should consider carefully before accepting an offer . no school will admit a student without the s6 admission slip .
current year hkcee participants who still have not secured an s6 place after stages i to iv can apply for the central allocation at one of the following specified centres on $date ( stage v ) : kowloon - - - - - - - concordia lutheran school $number tai hang tung road , kowloon homantin government secondary school $number perth street , kowloon ning po college $number kung lok road , kwun tong hong kong - - - - - - - - - ho tung technical school for girls $number ka ning path , causeway bay new territories - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - nt heung yee kuk tai po district secondary school tai yuen estate , tai po sha tin government secondary school $number man lai road , sha tin tsuen wan government secondary school $number hoi pa street , tsuen wan yuen long public secondary school town park road south , shui ngau leng , yuen long results of the central allocation will be displayed at all the centres and district education offices on $date ( saturday ) from $number am to $number pm .
information leaflets and summary tables on the admission procedure have been distributed to the students concerned in $date this year .
additional copies of the leaflet and summary table are available at the district education offices .
details on the five stages of the s6 admission procedure will also be available at the education department 's $number - hour automatic telephone enquiry system on $number $number from $date ( wednesday ) .
a central hotline at telephone numbers $number $number , $number $number and $number $number will be set up $date to help students seek advice or clarification about the admission procedures , and to handle any complaints . they will be operating from $number am to $number pm and from $number pm to $number pm on weekdays and from $number am to noon on saturdays .
students are also welcome to contact district education offices for assistance .
eia report on tolo highway widening works the report of an environmental impact assessment (eia) study for the widening project of tolo highway will be available tomorrow ( monday ) .
the highways department has commissioned a consultancy to undertake the eia study on the government 's proposal to upgrade the section of tolo highway between island house interchange and ma liu shui interchange .
the proposal is to widen the section of tolo highway from dual-3 lane to dual-4 lane carriageway , with provision of closed circuit television cameras and a new emergency telephone system .
a department spokesman said : " the eia study identifies the potential environmental impacts of the project in respect of noise , air and water quality , ecology , construction waste , land use and landscape .
" it also recommends necessary mitigation measures . "
the eia study 's report ( in english ) and its executive summary ( in both english and chinese ) will be available for public inspection at : * reference library , city hall library * reference library , kowloon central library * reference library , sha tin central library * reference library , tuen mun central library * reference library , tsuen wan central library * public enquiry services centre , sha tin district office , $number / f , citylink , sha tin kcr station , sha tin * public enquiry services centre , tai po district office , tai po government offices , ting kok road , tai po in addition , the main report will be for sale at $ $number at the department 's major works project management office , $number floor , homantin government offices , $number chung hau street , homantin , kowloon .
the executive summary will also be available free there .
briefing sessions on hkadc nomination members of the arts community are invited to attend the briefing sessions being organised by the broadcasting , culture and sport bureau (bcsb) on the arrangements for the nomination of the new term of the hong kong arts development council (hkadc) .
representatives from bcsb and its commissioned agent for this nomination exercise , pa professional consultants ltd . , will be present to explain the details .
session $number - - - - - - - - - date : $date ( wednesday ) time : $number pm venue : lecture hall , sheung wan civic centre , $number floor , uc sheung wan complex , $number queen 's road central , hong kong session $number - - - - - - - - - date : $date ( saturday ) time : $number am $number noon venue : lecture hall , sheung wan civic centre , $number floor , uc sheung wan complex , $number queen 's road central , hong kong the current term of office of the hkadc will end on $date and a new term will begin on $date .
preparations are underway to conduct a nomination exercise for the purpose of appointing members in specified arts interests to the hkadc .
for enquiries about the briefings , please call mr vincent tang of bcsb at $number $number or miss kathy chan of pa professional consultants ltd . at $number $number .
lbac briefed on property market & construction workforce the land and building advisory committee was briefed on how the labour market of the building and construction industry could cope with the latest housing production plan at its meeting today ( monday ) .
the education and manpower bureau (emb) informed the committee that an inter - departmental working group had been set up to conduct a special survey on the labour requirements of construction industry .
in parallel with the above survey , the emb will shortly be setting up a steering group to consider how best to expand the training and retraining capacity of the relevant training bodies to cope with the manpower needs of the industry .
" the committee welcomed the government 's determination to increase housing supply .
we hope the production of housing units will not be adversely affected by any insufficient supply of labour in the construction and building industry , " said professor yeung yue - man , chairman of the committee , adding that the committee will continue to closely monitor the situation .
the committee also asked the government to brief members on the land requirements for additional schools to cater for children now residing in the mainland who are eligible for residence in hong kong under the basic law .
" the education department estimates $number additional schools , requiring $number hectares of land , will have to be built $date / $number to cater for the children .
we understand that there are adequate sites reserved on town plans to meet the land requirement .
we have urged government to ensure the adequate supply of land for schools , while not compromising the implementation of other educational initiative , such as whole - day primary schooling and floating classes , " said professor yeung .
the committee also noted the performance of the property market in $number six months of $number .
the volume of transactions and turnovers experienced a very significant increase over the last six months $date .
in terms of number of registration and total consideration , the percentage increases are $number and $number respectively .
" we have also discussed a proposal to require all privately owned buildings $number years old to be subject to building safety inspection scheme on a mandatory basis , " said professor yeung .
the scheme seeks to address the problems of integrity of external finishes , structural safety of buildings and fire safety in buildings through preventive measures .
the buildings department will set technical standards on the inspection maintenance and repair of buildings , and require owners of buildings to appoint building professional to inspect their buildings regularly and to carry out remedial works if found necessary .
" we are concerned about the growing number of ageing buildings not properly maintained by their owners . this will pose dangers to the occupants and the public .
we hope the mandatory application of the building safety inspection scheme will improve the situation .
" however , the government has to see to it its smooth implementation by promoting better building management , " said professor yeung .
vietnamese illegal immigrants intercepted in response to press enquiries , a security bureau spokesman said that as at $number pm today ( monday ) $number vietnamese illegal immigrants ( viis ) have been intercepted by the police on lantau . they are still being investigated .
" the police are searching for any other viis who may have escaped , " the spokesman said .
" all viis captured will be repatriated to vietnam as soon as possible . "
" the viis come to hong kong to seek illegal employment and make money .
whether there is any $number asylum policy or not would not have any impact on the attraction of hong kong for them .
they will continue to come for as long as there are good economic opportunities for them in hong kong , " the spokesman added .
traffic arrangements for ching cheung road closure the transport department today ( monday ) put up with a series of temporary traffic arrangements to cater for the traffic demand due to the closure of ching cheung road between tai po road and castle peak road .
the section has been temporarily closed until further notice due to a mudslide which occurred yesterday ( sunday ) .
traffic arrangements - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - motorists should avoid using ching cheung road and opt for alternative routeings to travel between kwai tsing area and east kowloon .
traffic from the east can divert via waterloo road , cornwall street , nam cheong street and west kowloon expressway for kwai tsing area .
motorists from shatin and northwest new territories should use shing mun tunnels instead of lion rock tunnel for kwai tsing .
traffic from the west for east kowloon should use kwai chung road or kwai chung viaduct , west kowloon expressway and jordan road .
traffic from northeast new territories can travel via the road networks through yuen long and tuen mun for kwai tsing .
temporary traffic signs have been erected along the affected areas to assist motorists .
as traffic is expected to be quite congested in the morning peak hours , the transport department has already advised goods vehicles operators through their various associations to avoid ching cheung road and lung cheung road .
goods vehicles drivers are urged to spread out their activities , check the traffic conditions before making their way for the container terminal and try to avoid the morning peak hours ( $number am to $number am ) at shing mun tunnels .
for general motorists , please leave home earlier and listen to radio traffic news for updated situations .
public transport arrangements - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - during the road closure , kmb routes no . $number and 4 2 c heading for kwun tong have to be diverted via castle peak road , butterfly valley road , cheung sha wan road , nam cheong road before resuming normal routeings at lung cheung road .
kmb routes no . 6 1 x and 6 2 x have been diverted via kwai chung road , cheung sha wan road , nam cheong street and lung cheung road for kwun tong .
on their tsuen wan bound journeys , these four kmb routes have to be re - routed via lung cheung road , nam cheong street , un chau street , yen chau street and cheung sha wan road .
routes no . 6 1 x and 6 2 x will then resume normal routeings at kwai chung road and routes no . $number and 4 2 c will continue to operate via cheung sha wan road flyover and castle peak road before resuming normal routeings to tsuen wan .
e22 will re - route via nam cheong street , un chau street , tonkin street , lai chi kok road before resuming normal routeings at route $number for tung chung .
on its kowloon city bound journey , route no . e22 will be diverted via route $number to lai chi kok road , tung chau street , nam cheong street before resuming normal routeing at cornwall street .
passengers please pay attention to the notices for diversions at bus stops .
education for " illegal immigrant children " from the mainland in response to media enquiries on education for " illegal immigrant children " from the mainland , a spokesman for the education department said today ( monday ) : " the education department has not given any instructions to schools for 'blanket rejection ' of applications for admission from 'illegal immigrant children ' from the mainland .
on the question of whether such children can attend school , the education department works closely with the immigration department on a case by case basis . the director of education takes advice from the director of immigration regarding school placement of each individual child .
schools are advised each year that all requests for admission from these children should be referred to the relevant district education office .
parents of these children are welcome to approach district education offices direct for placement assistance .
the telephone numbers of these offices may be obtained from our public enquiry hotline $number $number . "
welfare project to help new arrival children the social welfare department and non - governmental organisations will organise a series of specially - designed programmes to help new arrival children from the mainland and their families integrate into the local community .
the director of social welfare , mr andrew leung kin - pong , said this today ( monday ) at a cheque presentation ceremony .
the standard chartered community foundation made a $ $number donation to the department to launch a social service project entitled " creation of our new home in hong kong " which targets at these new arrivals .
the chairman of the foundation , mr ian wilson , presented the cheque to mr leung at the ceremony held in the standard chartered bank building .
noting the rapid increasing number of new arrival children and the challenges faced by them , mr wilson pointed out : " the standard chartered community foundation believes this project is necessary , and is therefore , for $number year , donating $ $number to ensure that it happens . "
he hoped that the programme would be rewarding and successful . " the new project aims to help the new arrival children build up peer support and mutual help networks " , mr leung said , adding that emphasis would be placed on maintaining the function and integrity of the family .
the two - year project , which starts next month ( $date ) , will include adaptation , socialisation and community service programmes , homework guidance , language courses and communication skills training , benefiting $number children and their families .
it will be launched in eight districts with a high population of new arrivals - eastern / wan chai , sham shui po , yau tsim mong , kowloon city , wong tai sin / sai kung , kwun tong , tsuen wan / kwai tsing and sha tin .
the director thanked the foundation for its generosity towards the welfare of children and hoped that other commercial establishments would also care for those in need , making hong kong a more caring and loving community .
schools reminded of teacher recruitment information services primary and secondary schools in the public and private sectors are encouraged to take advantage of the education department 's computer data bank of teacher applicants to help fill teaching vacancies in the $number school year .
the department 's teacher recruitment information service (tris) now maintains a data bank of $number applicants who have indicated their intention to seek a teaching position in the coming school year . among them , some $number are degree holders , $number graduated from the hong kong institute of education or former colleges of education and another $number from approved post - secondary colleges .
the tris is going to extend its service this year to the end of $date to assist schools in recruiting suitable teachers to fill their vacancies .
to enlist the assistance of the tris , all that schools have to do is to complete a request form specifying their teacher requirements and return it to the department .
their request will be matched against the qualifications of individual applicants in the tris data bank .
a list of matching applicants will then be provided to the school for consideration .
to ensure that the data bank is properly updated , schools are reminded to report to the department , using a standard form , of the employment of applicants who have been referred through the tris .
the relevant forms have been sent to schools via the department 's administration circular no. $number dated $date . enquiries may be made on $number $number during office hours or by fax to $number $number .
seminar will be held on intellectual property rights laws the intellectual property department will hold a seminar on wednesday ( $date ) to brief practitioners related to intellectual property work on the new patents ordinance and registered designs ordinance .
the seminar is $number since the two new laws came into force on $date .
the seminar will be attended by $number participants , comprising solicitors and experts related to intellectual property work .
speakers from the intellectual property department will talk on the procedures for the new patents system and registered design registration system , and they will give a question - and - answer session .
the part on patents system will last from $number am to $number am while that on registered designs system from $number am to $number pm .
those who would like to know more about the new patents and registered design registration systems or meet with some of the speakers are requested to contact ms jo ye on $number $number or miss paula lee on $number $number .
land registry statistics for $date released a total of $number sale and purchase agreements for building units , including residential and non - residential properties , were lodged with the land registry last month ( $date ) . the figure represented an increase of $number per cent from the previous month and an increase of $number per cent over $date last year .
the total considerations of these agreements were $ $number , up $number per cent and $number per cent respectively when compared with the amounts in $date and $date last year . the figures were contained in the monthly statistics released today ( monday ) by the land registry on deeds relating to property transactions received for registration in the urban and new territories land registries in $date .
relevant statistics for $date and $date were provided for comparison . figures on sale and purchase agreements received for the past $number months and the year - on - year rate of change were also released .
these statistics generally relate to land transactions executed up to four weeks prior to their submission for registration as there is usually a time lag between the execution of deeds and their lodgement for registration .
gross domestic product for $number quarter of $number the preliminary estimates of the expenditure - based gross domestic product (gdp) for $number quarter of $number and revised estimates for $number and $number are released today ( monday ) by the census and statistics department .
gdp grew by $number in real terms in $number quarter of $number over the same quarter $date .
amongst the major gdp components , private consumption expenditure showed a year - on - year increase of $number in real terms in $number quarter of $number over a year earlier .
government consumption expenditure increased by $number in real terms .
on investment spending , gross domestic fixed capital formation recorded a large year - on - year increase of $number in real terms in $number quarter of $number .
within this total , construction output in the public sector decreased by $number in real terms , while that in the private sector registered a robust growth of $number in real terms .
taken together , overall expenditure on construction rose by $number in real terms .
expenditure on machinery and equipment also increased significantly , by $number in real terms .
as to external trade in goods , re - exports registered a year - on - year growth rate of $number in real terms in $number quarter of $number , while domestic exports decreased by $number in real terms .
meanwhile , imports of goods recorded a $number growth in real terms in $number quarter of $number .
exports of services increased by $number in real terms in $number quarter of $number over a year earlier .
the corresponding growth rate for imports of services was higher , at $number .
the implicit price deflator of the gdp , as a broad measure of overall inflation in the economy , rose by $number in $number quarter of $number over a year earlier .
along with the release of the preliminary gdp estimates for $number quarter of $number , gdp estimates for $number and $number have been revised taking into account the latest information from various data sources .
the real growth rate of gdp for $number is revised downwards $number , whereas that for $number is revised upwards $number .
production - based gdp estimates for $number by economic activity have also been revised .
based on the latest estimates , " wholesale , retail and import / export trades , restaurants and hotels " accounted for the largest share ( $number ) of gdp , followed by " financing , insurance , real estate and business services " ( $number ) and " community , social and personal services " ( $number ) .
more details on the annual and quarterly estimates of gdp are published in a report entitled " quarterly report of gross domestic product estimates $number quarter $number " .
this bilingual report is now on sale at $ $number per copy at the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong .
it may also be purchased at the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
enquiries about this publication may be directed to the national income branch ( $number ) of the census and statistics department ( tel . no. $number $number ) .
tender for the $number issue of $number - year exchange fund notes the hong kong monetary authority announces that the tender for $number issue of $number - year exchange fund notes will be held on monday , $date for settlement on tuesday , $date .
similar to the previous issue , an amount of hk $ $number $number - year notes will be on offer .
in addition to that , another hk $ $number will be held as reserve by the hong kong monetary authority for supply to market makers in the secondary market .
the notes will mature on $date and will carry interest at the rate of $number per annum payable semi - annually in arrears .
members of the public who wish to tender for the notes may do so through any of the market makers or recognised dealers on the published list which can be obtained from the hong kong monetary authority at $number floor , $number garden road , hong kong ( or telephone $number $number ) .
each tender must be for an amount of hk $ $number or integral multiples thereof .
members of the public who wish to tender for the notes may approach market makers or recognised dealers on the published list other details : please see information memorandum published or approach market makers or recognised dealers end
sponsors for industrial awards praised the director - general of industry , mr francis ho , today ( tuesday ) paid tribute to $number sponsors who had donated $ $number this year for the hong kong awards for industry .
speaking at a cheque presentation ceremony , mr ho said : " the awards scheme would not be such a success this year without the support and generous donations of our sponsors . "
mr ho said the record donation is a reflection of the recognition from the community of the contribution of hong kong industry to the economy and people 's livelihood .
the awards , organised for $number consecutive year $date , was initiated by the government $date to give recognition to outstanding achievements in industrial performance .
the awards scheme this year has the largest number of categories of award .
a new technological achievement category has been added to the six categories of consumer product design , machinery and equipment design , productivity , quality , environmental performance and export marketing .
" the new category reflects the trend of hong kong 's industrial development , " mr ho said .
commenting on the $number entries for the contest $date , mr ho said : " we have the largest number of entries for this year 's competition , a $number per cent increase over the last year .
" this is not just an achievement of the scheme itself but a clear reflection of the importance our industrialists attach to productivity , quality , marketing , engineering and technological excellence , and environmental protection . " the good response also provides very good indications that we do have a competitive industrial sector based in hong kong , " he said .
the assessment of the entries is now under way .
the final adjudication will take place in early $date under the chairmanship of mr antony leung , executive council member .
" the chief executive of the hong kong special administrative region , mr tung chee hwa , has agreed to present the awards on $date , " mr ho said .
the remaining four each presenting cheques for $ $number are : acl group ; regatex manufacturers ltd ; sino land co ltd ; and sun hung kai properties ltd .
the cheques are received by representatives of the seven organising bodies of the awards , namely , the industry department , the federation of hong kong industries , the chinese manufacturers ' association of hong kong , the hong kong productivity council , the private sector committee on the environment , the hong kong trade development council , and the hong kong industrial technology centre corporation .
mr ho presented a small zhu - bi trophy to $number of the organisations which had sponsored the awards scheme for five or more years .
response by correctional services department in response to a number of press enquiries following the press conference given by the ombudsman , a spokesman for the correctional services department today ( tuesday ) , made the following statement : " the correctional services department reiterates its determination to continue to co - operate with the office of the ombudsman .
the department is also committed to strive for efficiency , competence , quality of service and most important of all , fairness in the treatment of inmates .
with the measures taken to enhance inmates ' awareness of the function and accessibility of the ombudsman since $date last year , the number of complaint referrals from the ombudsman 's office has increased three - fold .
however , compared with the publicised figure of $number complaints received by the ombudsman during the period $date , the referrals represent only $number per cent of the total complaints made to the ombudsman by inmates .
of the $number complaint referrals $date , a total of $number cases were concluded by the ombudsman and so far , only one complaint was partially substantiated .
all other cases clearly showed that there was no mal - administration in the management of penal institutions .
the correctional services department pledges to continue its efforts in enhancing inmates ' access to the office of the ombudsman and will jointly examine with the ombudsman ways for further improvements which are consistent with security requirements and are within the legal provisions and jurisdiction of the ombudsman . "
advice and guidance for secondary five leavers extended service on career advice for secondary $number school leavers will be available at the further studies resources centre of the education department at room $number , mongkok government offices , $number luen wan street , mong kok .
upon release of the result of the hong kong certificate of education examination on thursday ( $date ) , the centre will extend its opening hours to between $number am and $number pm without lunch break on $date ( thursday ) , $date ( friday ) and $date ( monday ) and between $number am and $number pm on $date ( saturday ) .
an educational counsellor will be available at the centre $date to provide assistance to students with emotional problems .
students can also seek assistance from educational counsellor on $number $number .
they can get access to material on opportunities for further studies and training , and information on various profession . officers will also be available at the centre to give career guidance .
normal opening hours of the centre are from $number am to $number pm and $number pm to $number pm from mondays to fridays , and $number am to $number am on saturdays .
for enquiries on the further studies resources centre , please telephone $number $number .
$number intensive english language programme secondary five students who have taken at least half of the subjects in the hong kong certificate of education examination (hkcee) in chinese may apply for the pre - s6 course of the intensive english language programme (ielp) this $date .
senior education officer , mrs fok lee yu - hing , today ( tuesday ) said students who would be admitted to secondary six this $date were invited to apply for the pre - s6 course .
" the purpose of the course is to help students who have studied through the medium of chinese to attain the standard of english required by local tertiary institutions , " she said .
the ielp , run by the british council , will be conducted in three stages .
$number stage is a two - week whole - day pre - s6 course to be held from $date to $number . $number stage is a four - week post - s6 course to be held next summer , and the last stage , a two - week s7 course , will be held during the chinese new year vacation $date before they enter local tertiary institutions .
the two - week s7 course is to replace the existing four - week post - s7 course which will be held for the last time in the summer of $number .
mrs fok said current s5 students who were eligible for the pre - s6 course might obtain application forms from their schools . private candidates may get the forms from district education offices .
to be eligible for the pre - s6 course , students must : * have been admitted to s6 in the $number school year ; * have satisfied the requirements for taking the hong kong advanced level examination $date ; and * have taken at least $number per cent of the subjects in the hkcee in chinese apart from chinese subjects , english subjects , mathematics , additional mathematics , computer studies , religious studies , buddhist studies , shorthand , typewriting and principles of accounts .
applicants obtaining s6 places should return the application forms to the schools division of the education department on the $number floor , wu chung house , $number queen 's road east , wan chai , hong kong through the schools offering them s6 places before $number pm on $date ( monday ) .
students obtaining s6 places through the central allocation should return the application forms to the education department through principals of the schools admitting them before $number pm on $date ( saturday ) .
those obtaining s6 places in non - bought - place private schools where admission is not governed by the secondary six admission procedure should return the application forms through principals of the schools admitting them not later than $number pm on $date .
applicants taking the hkcee as private candidates are required to forward the completed application forms through the schools offering them s6 places , together with a copy of their hkcee admission slips and a copy of the hkcee results notice .
the list of $number batch of successful applicants will be posted at the following places on $date at $number am : * the british council head office at $number supreme court road , admiralty , hong kong ; and * education department kowloon sub - office at kowloon government offices , $number nathan road , kowloon .
eligible applicants who are late in obtaining s6 places through the central allocation or from non - bought - place private schools will be advised of the results as soon as possible .
they are reminded that their application forms must be returned to the education department through principals of the schools admitting them not later than $number pm on $date .
commemorative covers for year of heritage on sale two commemorative covers on the year of heritage are now on sale from the heritage resource centre of the antiquities and monuments office (amo) .
the two covers , one on the heritage day in lung yeuk tau and the other on the exhibition on hong kong 's heritage , are $number and $number in a series of postal items to commemorate the various activities of the year of heritage .
priced at hk $ $number each , $number cover bears a hk $ $number definitive stamp and the date chop of the post office while $number cover bears the hk $ $number stamp of british royal cypher which was cancelled by the special postmark of $date .
the opening hours of the sale counter at the heritage resource centre at $number nathan road , tsim sha tsui are from $number am $number pm , monday to friday .
for enquiries , please call the amo at $number $number .
the year of heritage is organised by the antiquities advisory board , the lord wilson heritage trust and the amo of the broadcasting , culture and sport bureau to enhance public awareness of heritage conservation in hong kong .
more people expect hong kong 's situation to improve : poll the latest public opinion survey conducted by the home affairs bureau (hab) in $date has shown that $number per cent of the $number $number respondents expected hong kong 's general situation to improve or stay the same in the coming $number months .
this represented an increase of four percentage point from $number per cent in may , a hab spokesman said today ( wednesday ) when releasing the latest findings of the bimonthly survey .
he noted that the number of respondents expecting the situation to improve had risen to $number per cent , as compared with $number per cent in may while the number of interviewees expecting it to stay the same remained unchanged at $number per cent .
when asked if they were satisfied with the present situation , $number per cent responded positively , almost unchanged from $number per cent in $date on the territory 's future , $number per cent of the respondents were confident that hong kong will continue to be prosperous and stable , the same as that in the last survey .
people mentioning " housing " as a problem were concerned about the " price of private housing being too high " and the " inadequate provision of public housing " .
among those who mentioned this , $number per cent considered the government had handled the problem well and $number per cent considered the government had exerted effort in solving the problem , as compared with $number and $number per cent respectively in the last survey .
people mentioning " illegal immigrants " as a problem were concerned about the " policy relating to mainland children coming to hong kong " and " child illegal immigrants placed additional burden on society " .
of those who mentioned these problems , $number per cent felt that the government had performed well in handling the issue .
this was $number percentage point higher than the comparable figure recorded in $date the survey was the $number in the series started $date to monitor public opinion trends on perceived problems in the territory , the government 's overall performance and the community 's view of the general situation .
through a random sampling of residential telephone numbers , $number $number respondents aged between $number and $number were successfully interviewed over the telephone , representing a completion rate of $number per cent .
arrangements for floating statutory holiday in $date in response to press enquiries , the labour department today ( wednesday ) reminded all employers to make arrangement for granting $number floating statutory holiday this year if they have not already fixed a date for this holiday .
under the employment ordinance , an employee is entitled to two floating holidays each year , which are taken on dates fixed by the employer or as additional days of annual leave if requested by the employee .
if the employer does not fix such dates and the employee makes no request , one of these two holidays will fall on the last monday of $date .
in lieu of granting the floating holiday on the last monday of $date , an employer may grant an alternative holiday within $number days before or after this day by giving $time prior notice to the employees before the alternative holiday ( if it is granted in advance ) or this day .
since $date has replaced the last monday of $date as one of the general holidays this year , an employer may consider designating $date as statutory holiday for his employees if he has not already fixed another day as a floating holiday .
an employer may also designate another day to be the floating holiday depending on his operational need .
hk / us customs joint factory observation visits next month the government announced today ( wednesday ) that hong kong and the united states (us) customs officers will conduct joint factory observation visits to selected textiles factories in hong kong in $date .
" the visits will be modelled on the administrative arrangements used for the joint factory visits in $date , " a government spokesman said .
" in other words , joint teams comprising hong kong and us customs officers will visit factories who have given prior consent to the observation visits ; and during the visits us customs officers will not be involved in any enforcement work such as inspection of factory books and records , " he said .
" any such enforcement activities will be undertaken , if necessary , by hong kong customs independently , and separately from the joint observation visits , " he added .
as with the factory visits in $date , the joint teams will observe factory production in relation to $number categories of textiles and apparel products .
" details of the joint factory observation visits will be promulgated to the trade through the issue of a notice to exporters nearer the time , " the spokesman said .
the spokesman said the customs and excise department and the trade department officials had meetings with the us customs counterparts in hong kong in end $date , as part of on - going exchanges between hong kong and the us on the two sides ' work against illegal textiles transshipment .
during the meetings the two sides updated each other on their work and exchanged views on continued co - operation .
" we reiterated determination to combat illegal textiles transshipment and briefed the us counterparts on the new initiatives that have been introduced to enhance our textiles export control system , " the spokesman said .
" given the various new initiatives introduced by hong kong , the two sides agreed that the us customs officers should be invited to hong kong for a month long joint observation visits to factories to enable the us side to have a better understanding of hong kong 's enhanced control system , " he said .
in $date , the us customs imposed a number of additional import measures on $number categories of hong kong garments . such measures included additional requirements in import documentation , the requirement for a single entry bond , and the requirement for production verification by the us customs in hong kong factories .
hong kong objected to unilateral imposition of the additional requirements , pointing out that they were applied to the relevant products only from hong kong and were therefore discriminatory .
in $date , the us customs started to put four more categories of hong kong products on a " watch - list " . should the monitoring categories indicate the possibility of illegal transshipment , the us customs could impose similar additional import measures .
the two sides have had various exchanges on the matter .
joint factory visits in hong kong were conducted in $date and $date .
in $date , the us customs decided to remove the single entry bond for two of the $number categories subject to additional measures : categories $number and $number ( suits ) .
in $date , the us customs lifted the single entry bond requirement on the remaining eight categories and removed the watchlist of four categories .
safety in gas welding and cutting proprietors and contractors are reminded to take appropriate safety precautions when using oxy - gas welding and cutting equipment .
the reminder was made following a recent accident in san po kong in which the gas cylinder of a gas cutting set exploded when workers were dismantling a cooling tower in an industrial building .
" welding and cutting processes are potentially hazardous and appropriate safety precautions must always be taken to guard against fire and explosion risks , " acting chief factory inspector ( operations ) , mr wong ching - kwok , said today ( wednesday ) .
mr wong warned that the following safety precautions against fire and explosion should be taken when using oxy - gas welding and cutting equipment : - the acetylene and oxygen cylinders should be fitted with suitable and effective flashback arrestors ; - the equipment should be checked for damage before use .
leaking hose and other damaged part should be replaced or repaired immediately ; - the equipment should be handled with care ; - the equipment should not be used near flammable substances and combustible materials ; - workers engaged in welding and cutting operations should be fully trained in the work and informed of the risks involved and the necessary safety precautions .
to assist employers and employees to better understand the risks involved and the necessary precautions to be taken , the occupational safety and health branch (oshb) of the labour department has published a pamphlet on " welding and cutting safety " .
the pamphlet can be obtained free of charge at the safety promotion office of the oshb at $number floor , harbour building , $number pier road , central or at various branch offices of the operations division .
inmates move to new minimum security institution at lo wu a former military camp at lo wu , which has been converted into a minimum security prison for $number prisoners , has begun the intake of inmates .
the lo wu correctional institution comprises a number of low - rise building blocks , workshops and other essential facilities required for a minimum security institution . it has eight dormitories accommodating $number prisoners each .
the other main buildings include the administration block , reception office and control room block , sick bay , special unit , kitchen , dining hall , shower room , domestic laundry , book - binding and metal workshops .
the conversion of the camp into a penal facility was built at a cost of $ $number .
two institutions win awards for " best visit room services " visitors to penal institutions have voted ma po ping prison and tong fuk centre , and cape collinson correctional institution as providing the best in visit room services under the government 's staff motivation scheme .
the commissioner of correctional services , mr raymond lai ming - kee , congratulated the heads of the two institutions for a job well done when he presented them with the " best visit room services award " at a brief ceremony today ( wednesday ) .
during a two - week period in $date , visitors to csd institutions were invited to fill in ballot tickets , on a voluntary basis , on their views of the services provided that include staff performance , team work , visit room facilities and cleanliness .
ma po ping prison and tong fuk centre achieved the best average score of $number per cent ( $number votes ) among $number larger institutions in its group , while cape collinson correctional institution was top of its grouping with $number per cent ( $number votes ) among eight small / treatment institutions .
the assistant commissioner ( personnel ) , mr h s rutton , said the award scheme had helped motivate the staff to improve their skills in customer relations .
" while the department has always prided itself in providing good services to members of the public who visit our institutions , this scheme has given our staff an added impetus to do even better than normal .
" the whole exercise was more than just putting on a smile or just being polite - - - the visitors were asked to judge staff performance , procedural arrangement and waiting time , and visit room facilities , notices and information .
" visiting a family member or friend in a penal institution is not a nice experience and anything we can do to make it more pleasant is a matter of pride for us to achieve , " mr rutton said .
it is designed to promote mutual understanding , to strengthen contacts between mainland and hong kong officials and to provide immersion training in putonghua and chinese writing skills .
the tsinghua course was $number organised $date .
in the four - year period between $date , $number tsinghua courses had been organised , with $number course participants .
$number tsinghua course under the new agreement will be conducted in $date .
government attaches importance to public views on housing the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , stressed today ( thursday ) that the government attaches great importance to grass - roots opinion in formulating its housing policies .
" i am very concerned about livelihood issues and the government 's top priority now is to solve housing problems , " he said .
he was visiting two households in upper wong tai sin and tsz ching estates to see for himself the living environment of both old and modern estates . he also took the opportunity to listen to views of tenants on government housing policies .
mr tung said he , together with government officials , were drafting $number special administrative region policy address . through contacts with the community , he would be able to understand more about their expectations and formulate policies which are more responsive to the needs of the society .
he noted that $number per cent of the population in wong tai sin district lived in public housing estates of various types .
the chief executive had a bird 's - eye view of the redevelopment programmes in tsz wan shan from the rooftop of a housing block where he was briefed by housing department staff on the latest progress of these programmes .
he paid tribute to the housing authority for its redevelopment efforts . he also promised that the government would endeavour to construct more housing units and improve their quality .
" the housing department had redeveloped most of the old public housing blocks in wong tai sin district . this shows that if we are determined , we will be able to achieve our targets , " he said .
according to the housing authority 's redevelopment programme , all the old , non - self - contained housing blocks will be redeveloped $date .
mr tung said $number per cent of the public housing tenants in wong tai sin district had purchased their own flats with subsidies from the home purchase loan scheme .
" the government 's objective is to give all public housing tenants a chance to buy their own flat , " he added .
" after visiting squatters at tai hom village and ha yuen leng last $date , i believed there was a need for the government to step up measures in tackling the problem there .
today , i am glad to learn that the housing department has scheduled to clear the area $date for redevelopment into a commercial and residential area with community facilities .
" government departments will work hand in hand in implementing various housing development programmes to achieve the target of providing $number units a year , so that people can buy their own flats at affordable prices . this is important for building a society with peace and harmony , " he said .
accompanying the chief executive were the director of home affairs , mrs shelley lau , the chairman of the housing authority , the hon rosanna wong , and the director of housing , mr tony miller .
over $number s6 places still available after stage i stage i of the secondary $number admission procedure , which ended at $number pm today ( thursday ) , resulted in $number secondary $number leavers being successful in acquiring s6 places .
some $number s6 places are available at stage ii which will begin tomorrow ( friday ) .
a list of schools with vacancies would be displayed at all district education offices from $number am tomorrow . students may also obtain the information from the list published in some newspapers on the same day .
students with $number points or more from the best six subjects in one sitting of the hong kong certificate of education examination (hkcee) may apply to one or more of these schools by $number pm tomorrow .
prevocational school students who satisfy minimum a - level entry requirements may apply to their own or other prevocational schools . if they have obtained $number points or more , they may apply to other schools as well .
private and evening school students with $number points or more could apply to plk vicwood k t chong $number form college or any other school .
schools with vacancies may offer s6 places to eligible applicants instantly . some of them , however , may notify the applicants of the results by $number pm tomorrow . successful applicants should register with only one school before $number pm on the same day .
meanwhile , the education department has received three complaints today about schools not following the admission procedure .
the department 's central hotlines , $number $number , $number $number and $number $number and the $number district education offices handled $number and $number enquiries respectively on the admission procedure today .
the hotline will continue to operate from $number am to $number pm and $number pm to $number pm on weekdays and $number am to noon on saturdays until $date ( saturday ) .
the department 's careers education centre had received $number visitors and handled $number telephone enquiries on matters relating to the release of the hkcee results up to $number pm today .
the centre at room $number , mong kok government offices , $number luen wan street , mong kok , provides students with materials on opportunities for further studies and training and information on various professions .
students are reminded that the centre will extend its opening hours without a break from $number am to $number pm on weekdays and $number am to $number pm on saturdays until $date ( monday ) . an educational counsellor can be reached on $number $number during the period .
career advice for secondary five graduates the labour department today ( thursday ) said that secondary five graduates can approach its two careers information centres of the careers advisory service for advice and guidance on further studies and choosing their careers .
they can make use of the reference library and the audio - visual equipment in these centres to obtain the most up - to - date training and careers information .
they can also seek guidance and advice from the counselling officers in the centres .
the two centres are situated at : - $number floor , southorn centre , $number hennessy road , wan chai .
hotline : $number $number - $number floor , mongkok government offices , $number luen wan street , mong kok ( next to mongkok kcr station ) . hotlines : $number $number and $number $number .
to enhance the careers awareness of fresh graduates and to prepare them for the working world , two careers day will be held at the mong kok centre on $date .
apart from an exhibition , non - stop video and slide shows as well as two careers talks on choosing careers , job search and interview techniques and employment traps will also be arranged .
all graduates are welcomed to join the activities in the careers days . they can call $number $number or $number $number for further information .
monitors ' report submitted to cs for administration the monitors appointed to observe the orderly repatriation programme operation this ( thursday ) morning have submitted their report to the chief secretary for administration .
the two monitors comprised a non - official justice of the peace , prof joseph cheng yu - shek , and a representative from a non - government organisation , mr john bridle , medecins sans frontieres .
ce thanks community for active participation the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , today ( thursday ) thanked community organisations for holding various activities to celebrate the reunification of hong kong with china .
speaking at a reception at government house for community organisations involved in these activities , mr tung pointed out that the success of the events was due to the support and active participation of hong kong people .
about $number guests attended the reception .
inmates attained good results in hkcee inmates from eight correctional institutions who worked hard at their studies have obtained good results in this year 's hong kong certificate of education examination (hkcee) .
a total of $number inmates took a sum of $number papers in $number subjects which gained a pass rate of $number per cent .
seventeen credits and $number passes were obtained .
they performed best in the subjects of mathematics and principles of accounts .
the majority of inmates who sat for this year 's hkcee are from pik uk correctional institution , with $number inmates . the rest are from stanley prison , tung tau correctional institution , lai king training centre , cape collinson correctional institution , tai tam gap correctional institution , shek pik prison and tai lam correctional institution for women .
a spokesman for the correctional services department said today ( thursday ) : " it is always the department 's policy to encourage and to assist inmates to sit for the hkcee and other public examinations .
" $date , some $number inmates have been arranged to sit for hkcee and the pass rate is always encouraging although it varies every year . "
local standing order service accepts application the acting postmaster general , mr p c luk , announced today ( thursday ) that the local standing order service will accept application for the remaining stamp issues of $number from tomorrow ( friday ) to $date ( friday ) at all post offices .
the service provides for customers to order mint stamps , serviced $number day covers and presentation packs of the remaining two special issues $date - the $number world bank group / international monetary fund meetings and hong kong seashells .
interested customer may complete an application form available at all post offices as from tomorrow and make the payment at any post office . they can also send the application through mail or fax provided that payment is made by credit card or cheque .
in addition , order has to be collected at designated post office ( except mobile post office ) on $number working day after $number day of new stamp issue . customer may appoint a representative to collect the order on their behalf .
the local standing order service has been introduced since $date for ordering new stamp issues .
acp reaches $number completion mark the $ $number airport core programme (acp) which is providing hong kong with a new international airport and related facilities is $number per cent complete , with government works $number per cent complete , according to the latest quarterly report covering the progress of the acp up to the end of $date this year released by the new airport projects co - ordination office (napco) .
now that the works directly funded by the government are close to completion , napco , which has been co - ordinating the acp , will focus attention on the progress of the new airport and the airport railway .
napco has been working closely with the airport authority (aa) and the mtr corporation (mtrc) to ensure that the airport and the railway will - - as with the government acp works - - be completed on time and within budget , said its director , mr billy lam .
" we are all working towards the target of opening the new airport in $date next year , and the airport railway shortly after , " he said .
copies of the report have been submitted to the provisional legislative council and the airport consultative committee .
" with continuous , rigorous cost control and conscientious efforts in tackling claims from contractors , we expect the outturn cost of the acp will remain within the reduced estimate of $ $number announced in $date , " said mr lam .
referring to the figures for claims contained in the quarterly report , mr lam said the claims from contractors did not signify anything unusual or causing concern , especially for projects of such size and complexity as the acp .
as at the end of $date , the government , the aa and the mtrc have received a total of $number claims in relation to $number major acp construction contracts . of these , $number have been resolved by way of settlement or withdrawal of the claims by the contractors , leaving $number unresolved claims .
the $number claims were resolved at a cost of $ $number against the original claimed amount of $ $number .
the $number unresolved claims are seeking $ $number but the government , the aa and the mtrc have estimated their liability against these claims at $ $number .
mr lam said there was sufficient contingency in the revised estimate for acp projects for the settlement of claims , while leaving a reasonable balance to meet changes and variation orders for the remaining contract period .
the government , the aa and the mtrc would continue to closely monitor claims for extension of time to ensure that critical contract completion dates would remain unaffected , mr lam said .
" we will also continue to work conscientiously to ensure that the claims will be settled in a cost - effective and efficient manner , and consideration will be given only to those which are fully substantiated , " he added .
govt clarifies west rail design consultancies in response to media enquiries regarding kowloon - canton railway corporation (kcrc) 's plan to invite expressions of interest for the detailed design consultancies in respect of phase i of the west rail , a government spokesman said today ( friday ) that detailed design was an essential part of the planning process of the west rail to bring the design level of the railway from $number per cent to full design .
he said : " construction of the railway can only start after detailed design is completed but to meet the planned target dates for commencement of construction and completion of the railway , the kcrc needs to invite expressions of interest for the design consultancies now . "
" however , land resumption and construction of the project could only proceed when we have obtained the authorisation of the executive council and the necessary funding from the finance committee of the legislature $date , " the spokesman emphasised .
according to kcrc 's timetable , expressions of interest will be invited this month , followed by a pre - qualification exercise to enable a shortlist of detailed design consultants to be drawn up .
these consultants will then be invited to tender for five detailed design packages covering the five sections of the railway .
detailed design work will commence in early $number and is expected to be completed around end of $number .
while the present pre - qualification exercise by kcrc does not signify that implementation of the railway has received a formal go - ahead , the spokesman reiterated that it was government 's intention to construct the west rail as soon as possible .
" according to the project programme , it is government 's target to complete the railway from west kowloon to yuen long by end of $number and to tuen mun in $number quarter of $number , " the spokesman added .
education for children whose status to be established in view of the imminent commencement of the school year , the immigration department ( imm d ) and the education department (ed) responded to enquiries concerning enrolment in schools by children whose immigration status has not yet been established .
the government policy continues to be that children who have no legal right to remain in hong kong will not be allowed to enrol in schools . they will be repatriated in the usual manner .
however , for those children whose claims may take some time to verify , we will continue to consider on a case by case basis to allow them to receive education during the time their cases are being examined .
subject to the imm d 's advice , they may temporarily enrol in schools pending the outcome of the assessment of their claims .
upon request by parents of these children , ed 's district education offices will seek advice from the imm d before deciding whether the children could be admitted to a school temporarily .
for those children who may be admitted to schools temporarily , school places will normally be identified for them within $number school days from the date of the request .
based on the number of children surrendered to the imm d , ed estimates that adequate school places could be found .
these arrangements are made on compassionate grounds for the welfare of the children . they will in no way affect the outcome of the assessment of their claims nor be construed as a ground against their repatriation if considered necessary eventually .
stage three of s6 admission procedure begins tomorrow a total of $number secondary $number ( s6 ) places are still available for secondary $number ( s5 ) students to apply at stage three of the secondary $number admission procedure which begins tomorrow ( saturday ) . up to present , $number students were successful in acquiring s6 places .
day school students with results satisfying the minimum a - level entry requirements may apply to their own or linked school which still has vacant places before $number am tomorrow . successful applicants should register with the schools on the same day .
private candidates and evening school students with results which satisfy the minimum a - level entry requirements may apply to plk vicwood k t chong $number form college .
prevocational school and past students , however , should not apply at this stage .
meanwhile , the education department has received four complaints today ( friday ) about schools not following the admission procedure .
the department 's central hotlines , $number $number , $number $number and $number $number and the $number district education offices handled $number and $number enquiries respectively on the admission procedure today .
the hotline will continue to operate from $number am to $number pm and $number pm to $number pm on weekdays and $number am to $number noon on saturdays until $date ( saturday ) .
up to $number pm today , the department 's careers education centre had received $number visitors and handled $number telephone enquiries on matters relating to the release of the hong kong certificate of education examination results .
the centre at room $number , mong kok government offices , $number luen wan street , mong kok , provides students with materials on opportunities for further studies and training and information on various professions .
students are reminded that the centre will extend its opening hours without a break from $number am to $number pm on weekdays and from $number am to $number pm on saturday until $date ( monday ) .
an educational counsellor can be reached on $number $number during the period .
ed : violating admission procedures not acceptable the director of education , mrs helen c p lai yu , today ( friday ) stressed that schools should closely follow the secondary six admission procedures laid down by the department .
mrs yu said : " schools must not accept students ahead of schedule . advance registration is not acceptable . it is unfair to students and unethical in principle and practice .
" our area staff conduct spot checks on schools to ensure compliance with the announced procedures .
" we take a serious view of such malpractice and will investigate all complaints , " she said .
" if a complaint is substantiated , the school concerned will be warned . the extra students enrolled under such circumstances will not count towards the class size . "
mrs yu also called on schools to accept students with disabilities where they can be integrated .
" it is time - honoured education philosophy to treat students equally regardless of ability or disability . it has been our policy , as far as possible , to integrate students with disabilities into mainstream schools . schools should do their best to help and encourage such students who wish to continue their education . "
the s6 admission procedures are reviewed every year and all practical areas for improvement will be considered in order to reduce student anxiety over school placement .
response to press enquiries on bus fires in response to press enquiries on the recent spate of bus fires , a spokesman for the transport department today ( friday ) issued the following statement : " the transport department (td) is very concerned about the recent spate of accidents involving buses of the kowloon motor bus (kmb) company .
as in the previous four incidents , the one occurred last night ( thursday ) in tsuen wan near tuen mun road involving a kmb route 5 8 m double decker bus is another separate and isolated incident .
the cause of the accident is still under investigation .
kmb was instructed to submit a report to td in two days for this incident .
td has instructed kmb to step up its supervision and quality control of its fleet maintenance and inspection programme to assure safety .
td has also issued an instruction to kmb ordering a fleet check for all models within one month .
kmb is also required to come up with means to strengthen its maintenance and inspection programme and submit a report to td within two weeks .
in view of these incidents , td will also inform other public bus companies of the causes of recent fires and advise them to take precautionary actions to assure safety of their fleet . "
eps service for collection of vehicle licence fees the transport department is to extend the easy pay system (eps) scheme for the collection of vehicle licence fees in its hong kong licensing office from monday ( $date ) .
the eps scheme enables members of the public to submit their applications and pay the fees at the same counter to save time and reduce the volume of cash in hand . it has been well received by the public since it was introduced last year for collecting driving licence fees in transport department 's four licensing offices .
a spokesman for the department said : " to further extend the scheme , eps service will be available from monday in counters processing renewal of vehicle licences or transfer of vehicle ownership at the hong kong licensing office on $number floor , united centre , $number queensway . "
" if public response is good , this alternative method for paying fees will also be available in vehicle licence counters in the other three licensing offices in mong kok , kwun tong and shatin in the coming months . "
river channels in sheung shui to reduce flooding the government will construct river channels in sheung shui to reduce the risk of flooding in the area .
the works form part of the long - term river training project in the indus basin .
they will also bring about significant improvement to the maintenance access to the river channels upon completion .
the works will be carried out within $number hectares of foreshore and sea - bed at area 3 0 b in sheung shui .
apart from constructing new river channels , existing ones between the south of shek wu hui sewage treatment works and north of fu tei au road will be widened .
there will also be excavation works and embankments will be built .
the works will start in early $number for completion in about early $number .
volume and price statistics of external trade in $date in $date , the volume of hong kong 's re - exports increased by $number over a year earlier , while that of domestic exports decreased by $number .
taken together , the volume of total exports increased by $number .
concurrently , the volume of imports increased by $number .
the census and statistics department today ( friday ) released volume and price statistics of external trade for $date .
comparing $date with $date , the volume of hong kong 's re - exports increased by $number , while the volume of domestic exports decreased by $number .
taken together , the volume of total exports increased by $number .
meanwhile , imports increased by $number in volume .
the growth in volume of trade is derived from the growth in trade value with the effect of price changes discounted .
comparing $date with $date , the prices of re - exports and domestic exports decreased by $number and $number respectively .
import prices also decreased , by $number .
as regards price changes in $date over $date , the prices of re - exports and domestic exports decreased by $number and $number respectively , while import prices decreased by $number .
price changes are reflected by changes in unit value indices which are compiled based on average unit values or , for certain commodities , specific price data .
the terms of trade index , defined as the ratio of total export price index to import price index , rose by $number in $date over a year earlier , and by $number in $date over the same period last year .
analysed by end - use category , increases in re - export volume in $date over a year earlier were recorded for most of the categories , viz . fuels ( $number ) ; capital goods ( $number ) ; and raw materials and semi - manufactures ( $number ) .
on the other hand , the volume of re - exports of foodstuffs and consumer goods decreased by $number and $number respectively .
over the same period of comparison , increases were recorded in the prices of re - exports of fuels ( $number ) and foodstuffs ( $number ) .
on the other hand , re - export prices of capital goods ; raw materials and semi - manufactures ; and consumer goods decreased by $number , $number and $number respectively .
comparing $date with $date , the volume of domestic exports of electronic components and domestic electrical appliances recorded increases of $number and $number respectively .
on the other hand , the volume of domestic exports of textile made - ups and related articles ; and metal ores and scrap both decreased significantly , by $number .
over the same period of comparison , domestic export prices of metal ores and scrap showed a significant increase , by $number .
on the other hand , domestic export prices of electronic components and footwear decreased significantly , by $number and $number respectively .
significant increases in import volume were noted of soya bean oil , peanut oil , vegetable oil and lard ; and rice .
however , notable decreases were recorded in the import volume of animals of the bovine species , live ; and vegetables .
over the same period of comparison , the import volume of consumer goods increased by $number .
notable increases in import volume were noted of passenger motor cars and alcoholic beverages .
however , the import volume of tobacco manufactures ; and radios , television - sets , gramophones , records , tape recorders and amplifiers decreased significantly .
the import volume of raw materials and semi - manufactures increased by $number in $date compared with $date .
rapid increases in import volume were noted of thermionic , cold cathode or photo - cathode valves and tubes , diodes , transistors etc and parts thereof ; and cotton yarn and thread .
however , significant decreases were noted of wool and other animal hair ; and woven fabrics of wool and mixtures .
imports of fuels decreased by $number in volume in $date compared with $date .
as regards capital goods , the volume of imports increased by $number in $date over $date .
notable increases were recorded in the import volume of construction machinery ; and industrial machinery , other than electrical machinery and textile machinery .
the import volume of transport equipment ; and textile machinery however decreased .
comparing $date with $date , import prices of capital goods ; raw materials and semi - manufactures ; foodstuffs ; and consumer goods decreased by $number , $number , $number and $number respectively .
on the other hand , import prices of fuels increased by $number .
details of the above statistics are published in the $date issue of the " hong kong trade index numbers " .
the report will be on sale around $date at $ $number per copy at either (i) the government publications centre on the ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway ; or (ii) the publications unit of the census and statistics department on the $number floor , wan chai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries regarding regular subscription to this report may be directed to the publications ( sales ) office of the information services department on $number floor , siu on centre , $number lockhart road , wan chai , hong kong ( tel no : $number $number ) and enquiries on trade indices to the census and statistics department ( tel no : $number $number ) .
aids trust fund application deadlines the council for the aids trust fund announced today ( friday ) the deadlines for the next two rounds of applications for grants from the fund for the year of $number .
financial support will be given to projects to strengthen medical and support services for people living with aids and public education programmes to combat the spread of hiv and to promote a positive attitude towards aids .
the deadlines for the submission of applications for the next two rounds of applications are $date and $date .
completed application forms should be sent to the secretary for the council for the aids trust fund , c / o health and welfare bureau , $number / f , murray building , garden road , hong kong .
applicants are advised to adhere to the appropriate deadlines as it will normally take three to four months for processing .
application forms are available from the secretary for the council and the red ribbon centre , $number floor , wang tau hom jockey club clinic , $number junction road , kowloon .
enquiries can be made at telephone $number $number and $number $number , or by fax to $number $number and $number $number .
sir edward youde memorial scholarships for overseas scheme a total of $number students , including two disabled students have won awards under the sir edward youde memorial fund (seymf) this year to pursue their overseas postgraduate and undergraduate studies .
a spokesman for the fund said today ( friday ) that the seymf council members were so impressed by the personal qualities and achievements of the disabled candidates that they endorsed the support of one more disabled student for overseas studies this year .
normally only one disabled student is selected .
both disabled recipients this year will further their studies in the united states , selecting computer engineering and psychology as their subjects respectively .
chairman of the seymf council , mr ronald arculli , today hosted a sending - off party at the china club to congratulate and bid farewell to this outstanding group of hong kong students .
chairman of the board of trustees of the seymf , mr john chan cho - chak , member of the board , ms kathy chiu , members of the seymf council , dr edgar cheng wai - kin and professor daniel chan kwong - on , also attended the party .
the sir edward youde memorial fund was established in $date with public donation to commemorate the late hong kong governor sir edward youde .
the purpose of the fund is to provide for and encourage the education or learning of , or research by , the people of hong kong .
sir edward youde memorial fellowships & scholarships for overseas studies and sir edward youde memorial fellowship / scholarship for disabled students are two of the seven major existing award schemes administered by the seymf council .
the schemes aim at encouraging the achievement of scholastic excellence by hong kong students , including an outstanding disabled hong kong student , in overseas studies leading to a postgraduate degree or a $number degree .
during the period $number , a total of $number fellowships and $number scholarships including two for disabled students have been granted .
many of the recipients have now returned to contribute towards the betterment of hong kong .
a sir edward youde scholars association has also been formed to promote solidarity , scholarship and social awareness among its members .
fire safety workshop well received more than $number members of the owners ' corporations ( ocs ) , mutual aid committees ( macs ) and the public in kowloon city joined a building management workshop on fire safety tonight ( friday ) to update themselves on fire prevention measures and building repairs .
the workshop was organised by the kowloon city district office (kcdo) to promote public awareness of fire prevention and the importance of good building management .
during the two - hour workshop , a representative from the fire protection command of the fire services department gave talks and shared his experience on three topics , namely " causation of fire and some notable fire cases in hong kong " , " fire prevention and fire escape " and " fire services installations and its maintenance " .
an instructional video on building repairs and maintenance was shown .
it was followed by an open discussion session during which the participants raised questions and exchanged views on issues relating to building management .
the event is part of the building management promotional campaign by kcdo which organises regularly workshops , seminars and certificate courses covering a wide range of topical issues .
among them are maintenance and repairs of slopes and buildings , structural problems of buildings , repairs of public facilities of private buildings , domestic safety , building insurance , operation of ocs and macs , training of building management staff , as well as fire prevention and anti - corruption .
appointment to securities and futures commission the financial secretary , under delegated authority from the chief executive , has appointed the hon ronald arculli as a non - executive director of the securities and futures commission (sfc) to succeed mr vincent cheng who will be retiring from the sfc on $date .
announcing this today ( saturday ) , the secretary for financial services , mr rafael hui , said the period of mr arculli 's appointment would be $date .
mr hui paid tribute to mr cheng for his valuable contribution to hong kong 's financial market in general and the sfc in particular during his tenure as non - executive director . " the commission owes much to mr cheng for his invaluable advice , " mr hui added .
under section $number of the securities and futures commission ordinance , the chief executive shall appoint not less than eight directors of the commission , half of whom shall be non - executive directors .
at present the commission is served by $number directors .
the non - executive directors bring an independent view to the management and organisation of the sfc . they are fully involved in its policy development .
the other serving non - executive directors of the sfc include messrs roderick chalmers , robert kotewall , ronnie chan and henry fan .
stage four of s6 admission procedure begins next monday stage iii of the s6 admission procedure ended at $number am today ( saturday ) with $number s6 places left vacant for s5 students meeting the minimum a - level entry requirements to apply on monday ( $date ) .
up to now , $number s6 places have been filled .
a list of schools with vacancies will be published in some newspapers tomorrow ( sunday ) and displayed at all district education offices on $date .
students should not apply tomorrow and neither should schools accept applications .
students satisfying the minimum a - level entry requirements , including those from prevocational schools , evening schools and private candidates , may apply to one or more of these schools before $number pm on monday .
schools should notify the applicants of the results by $number pm on the same day and successful applicants should register with only one school before $number pm .
meanwhile , the education department has received three complaints today about schools not following the admission procedure .
the department 's central hotlines , $number $number , $number $number and $number $number and the $number district education offices handled $number and $number enquiries respectively on the admission procedure today .
the hotline will continue to operate from $number am to $number pm and from $number pm to $number pm on weekdays and $number am to noon on saturdays until $date ( saturday ) .
pacific economic co - operation hong kong committee meeting the $number meeting of the hong kong committee for pacific economic co - operation (hkcpec) to be held on $date ( wednesday ) will be open to members of the public . the chairman of the hkcpec and group managing director of li & fung limited , mr william fung , will chair the meeting which will be held at $number pm at the trade department conference room , $number floor , trade department tower , $number nathan road , mongkok , kowloon .
however , in view of limited seating capacity in the meeting venue , admission to the meeting is on a $number - come - $number - served basis . those interested in attending the meeting are requested to enrol with hkcpec secretariat by $date ( tuesday ) at the latest .
the meeting 's agenda and papers , unless classified as restricted or confidential , will be provided on request .
for reservations and enquiries , please contact the hkcpec secretariat at $number $number .
the hkcpec was established in $date to co - ordinate hong kong 's participation in the pacific economic co - operation council (pecc) .
the committee , in line with the nature of the pecc , is tripartite , comprising members from academic , business and government sectors .
currently , it has $number members , eight from each of the three sectors . the pecc was founded $date to promote regional economic co - operation .
at present , the pecc has a membership of $number member committees representing the economies of australia ; brunei darussalam ; canada ; chile ; china ; colombia ; hong kong , china ; indonesia ; japan ; korea ; malaysia ; mexico ; new zealand ; peru ; the philippines ; russia ; singapore ; chinese taipei ; thailand ; the united states ; vietnam ; and the pacific island nations .
arrangements for floating statutory holiday in $date the labour department today ( sunday ) reminded all employers to make arrangement for granting $number floating statutory holiday this year if they have not already fixed a date for this holiday .
under the employment ordinance , an employee is entitled to two floating holidays each year , which are taken on dates fixed by the employer or as additional days of annual leave if requested by the employee .
if the employer does not fix such dates and the employee makes no request , one of these two holidays will fall on the last monday of $date .
in lieu of granting the floating holiday on the last monday of $date , an employer may grant an alternative holiday within $number days before or after this day by giving $time prior notice to the employees before the alternative holiday ( if it is granted in advance ) or this day .
since $date has replaced the last monday of $date as a general holiday this year , an employer may designate $date as statutory holiday for his employees if he has not already fixed another day as a floating holiday .
an employer may also designate another day to be the floating holiday depending on his operational need .
the department urged the employees to discuss with their employers as soon as possible if they are not clear about the floating holiday arrangements .
for further enquiries , please call the department 's hotline $number $number .
afd subsidies for secondary studies children of farming and fishing families in need of financial assistance to complete their secondary education are reminded to apply early for the agricultural products and marine fish scholarship funds .
a spokesman for the agriculture and fisheries department said applications for the scholarships and grants will close on $date ( saturday ) .
he pointed out that these awards for form $number to from $number students , can be tenable at any secondary school in hong kong .
" scholarships may be awarded to students who have achieved a standard of academic excellence . "
" students can also apply for grants to cover tuition fees and purchase of books . such submissions will be considered on a financial - need basis , " the spokesman added .
application forms are available at the department 's headquarters on the $number floor of canton road government offices , $number canton road , kowloon and from various district agricultural and fisheries liaison offices .
enquiries can be directed to the secretary of the agricultural products and marine fish scholarship funds advisory committee on $number $number .
no mail delivery on public holiday the acting postmaster general , mr p c luk , announced today ( sunday ) that there would be no mail delivery during the forthcoming sino - japanese war victory day public holiday on $date . all post offices will be closed on that day .
however , one mail collection will be arranged for all street posting boxes except those that are located on outlying islands and in remote areas . the time of collection is shown on the time - plate of each posting box .
thailand the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , as controller of the exchange fund , has decided to contribute to a financing package organised by the international monetary fund (imf) to assist thailand in making economic adjustments .
the package was agreed at a meeting organised by the imf in tokyo today ( monday ) .
at the request of the imf , participants agreed to a financing package totalling us $ $number including the proposed imf contribution of us $ $number .
the package includes : hong kong , us $ $number ; japan , us $ $number ; australia , us $ $number ; singapore , us $ $number ; malaysia , us $ $number ; korea , us $ $number ; indonesia , us $ $number .
china is seriously and actively considering her contribution to the package .
lending to thailand will take the form of a medium - term loan at market interest rates .
the international bank for reconstruction and development and the asian development bank have indicated support for necessary financing and have plans for structural adjustment and sector reforms in thailand . " we are committed to regional monetary stability , " mr tsang said .
" the recent spate of speculative attacks has caused volatility of various degrees in the currency markets of southeast asia .
although the hong kong dollar has not been affected , the likely contagion effect is very real .
it is in hong kong 's interests as a leading financial centre in the region to see a strong and stable neighbouring environment .
our participation in the imf financing package underscores that commitment . "
" in consultation with the imf , the thai authorities have adopted a policy reform programme for the restructuring of thailand 's financial sector and its economy , " said mr joseph yam , chief executive of the hong kong monetary authority , who represented the financial secretary at the tokyo meeting .
" the policy programme represents determination by the thai authorities to steer the economy on the right track and restore the stability of the financial sector in thailand .
participants saw the meeting as an historic crossroads in regional financial co - operation , and possibly as a precursor of standing arrangements , " said mr. yam .
$number comprehensive transport study moves on the transport department today ( monday ) commissioned wilbur smith associates limited to carry out a $ $number - million comprehensive transport study to map out an up - to - date transport strategy for hong kong .
the study , $number of its kind , is prompted by the report of the working group on measures to address traffic congestion published in $date .
general support for the recommendation was received during the public consultation period .
introducing the study , a spokesman for the department said : " the main objective of $number comprehensive transport study ( cts-3 ) is to formulate an integrated transport strategy up to $number , including a detailed plan for the development and provision of transport infrastructure and other facilities .
" it will help determine what should be done to achieve an acceptable level of mobility for both passengers and freight , having due regard to resources constraints and environmental issues .
" a broad assessment of traffic demand up to $number will also be carried out to identify potential traffic and environmental concerns in a longer term , " the spokesman added .
the consultant commissioned will produce traffic forecasts and formulate a total of three transport strategies , namely , a highway development strategy , a public transport development strategy and a management measures and tolling strategy .
effects of projected cross - border traffic conditions and environmental impacts concerned will be assessed .
the transport implications of the latest land use programme outlined by the government and other developmental changes will also be evaluated .
" this would enable adequate transport infrastructure to be provided at the right time to accommodate increases in travel demand , resulting in an efficient transport system in the territory , " the spokesman said .
the study will take $number months for completion in early $number .
recommendations of cts-3 will be published in the form of a green paper on transport policy and public consultation will be conducted .
most students got s4 and post - s3 craft course places " over $number per cent students have been allocated subsidised secondary $number ( s4 ) and post - secondary $number ( post - s3 ) craft course places this year , " senior education officer , mrs carol ho , said today ( monday ) .
the results of the junior secondary education assessment (jsea) system will be released tomorrow ( tuesday ) .
a total of $number students participated in the jsea system this year and $number students have been allocated subsidised s4 places , including $number students promoting to their own schools .
some $number students have been allocated full - time post - s3 craft course places .
" students should return to their original schools to check the allocation results tomorrow .
" those students who have been allocated to other schools or technical institutes / industry training centres will each be given a registration form which must be submitted to the allocated school during registration on wednesday ( $date ) " , mrs ho said .
" if a student is unable to collect his / her registration form tomorrow or to turn up for registration on wednesday , the parent should authorise , in writing , a representative to collect the form or register at the allocated school , " she added .
the letter of authorisation for registration must have been endorsed by the original school .
for registration , a student must bring with him / her the following items : (a) registration form ; (b) his / her hong kong identity card ; and (c) two recent passport - size photographs and money for paying one month 's school fees which may be required by the school .
mrs ho reminded students that if they failed to register on wednesday ( $date ) , they would be deemed to have given up the subsidised school place .
students who have not been allocated subsidised s4 or post - s3 craft course places will each be provided with information sheet on the post - s3 craft courses and the alternative opportunities open to them , she said .
a small number of s4 places of the government evening secondary school course of the education department are available for the application of the current year day school s3 students .
application forms are obtainable during office hours from the department 's adult education section at room $number , wu chung house , $number queen 's road east , wan chai , hong kong from tomorrow to thursday ( $date ) .
applicants should return the completed application forms , together with a photocopy of the current year s3 academic report issued by their day schools , to the designated place from $number pm to $number pm on thursday ( $date ) .
for information regarding other courses operated by the department , please contact the adult education section at $number $number .
all enquiries concerning the allocation results should be referred to the department 's school places allocation section of the education department at $number $number .
$number s6 places left for central allocation a total of $number secondary six places are still available for central allocation when stage v of the secondary six admission procedure begins tomorrow ( tuesday ) .
among them , $number are in arts , $number in science and five in commercial stream using english as the medium of instruction ; two in commercial stream using chinese as the medium of instruction ; $number in engineering and $number in commercial stream in prevocational schools .
allocation will be based solely on their hkcee results .
the results will be displayed at $number am on saturday ( $date ) at the same centre where students applied for central allocation and the district education offices .
successful candidates should register with the allocated school before $number pm on the same day .
meanwhile , the education department had received six complaints today about schools not following the admission procedure .
the department 's central hotlines , $number $number , $number $number and $number $number and the $number district education offices had handled $number and $number enquiries respectively on the admission procedure today .
the department 's careers education centre had received $number visitors and handled $number telephone enquiries on matters relating to the release of hkcee results up to $number pm today .
the centre at room $number of the mongkok government offices , $number luen wan street , mong kok , provides students with materials on opportunities for further studies and training and information on various professions .
aids situation in $number quarter this year a total of $number persons were found to be positive for the hiv antibody test in $number quarter this year , bringing the cumulative total number of reported hiv infections to $number , the department of health announced today ( monday ) .
eleven aids cases were reported in the same period leading to a total number of $number confirmed cases .
of the $number new infections , $number ( $number ) of them were sexually acquired with heterosexual contact remains the major route of transmission .
routes of transmission of the $number hiv infected are : $number through heterosexual and $number through homosexual or bisexual contacts ; $number were injecting drug users ; four were mother - to - child transmission around the time of birth ; $number acquired the infection through contaminated blood or blood products . a majority of the latter could be traced back to $date when hiv antibody tests and safe clotting factor concentrates were not yet available .
as for the remaining $number , the information available was inadequate for classification .
hk country and marine parks on homepage members of the public can now gain access to hong kong 's country parks and marine parks through the internet homepage the agriculture and fisheries department (afd) .
an afd spokesman said today ( monday ) that this was $number phase of the department 's internet programme which contains information of the park resources , facilities and services provided in country parks and marine parks .
details of individual country parks , marine parks , nature trails , hiking trails , family walks , tree walks , country trails and country parks visitor centres are included . information on recreational facilities such as barbecue sites will be added .
" users can also obtain hints on hiking safety , statistics related to country parks and marine parks , as well as useful telephone numbers , " the spokesman said .
" the information will be very useful for visitors to plan their visits to country parks . "
he added that apart from being informative , the homepage was also designed to be attractive and interesting to users .
" it is made up of $number colour photographs and maps . more than $number real - time videos with sound tracks in english , cantonese and putonghua can also be seen . "
the spokesman thanked the lions nature education foundation for sponsoring part of the project . he also paid tribute to a number of afd staff who had worked outside office hours to design and build up the website .
the afd english homepage address is : " http://www.info.gov.hk/afd/afdparks/ehome.htm " . it will be enlarged in about two months ' time to cover other areas of work and services provided by the department .
keeping documents for local student finance scheme applications the student financial assistance agency today ( monday ) reminded form five and form seven students who are going to attend one of the local tertiary institutions in the $number academic year , including the eight universities / institutions funded by the university grants committee , the technical colleges ( tsing yi and chai wan ) and the prince philip dental hospital , and who are needy , that they could apply for financial assistance under the local student finance student (lsfs) when they are enrolled .
potential applicants are reminded to keep all necessary documents on the financial situation of their families .
applicants have to fill in an application form , providing information on their family financial circumstances including income of all family members who live together , family expenditure and assets . the information have to be supported by relevant documentary proofs .
for the $number academic year , the following documents are required : (a) documentary proofs of income of all members who live together $date : (i) for employees : irc $number tax assessment and demand note issued by the inland revenue department / salary statements / ir 5 6 b hong kong inland revenue employer 's return of remuneration and pensions form .
(ii) for business owners : profit and loss account duly certified by a certified public accountant .
if this is not available , self - prepared income breakdown or profit and loss account is acceptable .
( iii ) for self - employed or casual workers : self - prepared income breakdown or profit and loss account is acceptable if there is no other documentary proof .
a spokesman for the agency urges students to make available the above documents well in advance so that they can submit them with their applications ( for example , it takes time to obtain from banks copies of bank passbooks or monthly statements that have been lost ) . otherwise , they may not be able to meet the deadline for application .
the spokesman said that students should ensure that true and complete information are provided in the applications . otherwise , this may lead to disqualification from application and court proceedings .
recently , an applicant 's mother was sentenced to two months ' imprisonment which was suspended for $number months , and fined $ $number for providing false information .
enquiries may be directed to the agency 's hotlines $number $number or $number $number .
water storage figure storage in hong kong 's reservoirs at $number am today ( monday ) stood at $number per cent of capacity or $number cubic metres .
this time last year the reservoirs contained $number cubic metres of water , representing $number per cent of capacity .
fs 's transcript following is the transcript ( english part ) of the remarks by the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , at a media session after attending a special provisional legislative council meeting this ( tuesday ) evening : fs : i just explained to the legislative councillors the reason behind my decision that we should be prepared to lend to the thai central bank up to us $ $number .
i explained to them that the history of the case , particularly that the problem which the thai government faced since may this year and how it eventually developed into a crisis in $date and particularly , the specific request we received from the executive director of the imf , mr michel camdessus , that we should contribute to a lending facility up to us $ $number and how that decision eventually translated into agreement which was reached yesterday in tokyo . i also explained to them that there are intrinsic advantages for hong kong .
in medium term , there is also the question of stability of currency in the whole asian region and the stability of the currency is important to encourage economic growth in the region .
and hong kong forms part of the region .
for that reason , there must be direct benefit to hong kong to ensure the problem in thailand will not spread to other countries and will not create a problem eventually for hong kong .
and finally , as an international financial centre , with the reserve that we have and in the face of a specific request from the international monetary fund , i do no think we can sit on our hands , i think we should come forward with a contribution which is appropriate in the circumstances , not excessive but not miniscule and i think we have taken the right decision .
thank you very much .
preparatory committee on the establishment of gtc following the agreement to set up a general teaching council (gtc) in hong kong at its may meeting , the education commission has appointed a preparatory committee with $number members to draw up the implementation details for establishing the gtc and to conduct the necessary consultation on various aspects of gtc .
in appointing the preparatory committee , the education commission considers that it should include members from the education commission as well as those who have been closely involved in the past in the deliberation on establishing a gtc in hong kong .
following is the membership of the preparatory committee : chairman - - - - - - - - mr andrew leung kwan - yuen members - - - - - - - professor rosie young professor cheng kai - ming mr cheung man - kwong mrs angela cheung wong wan - yiu mr irving koo yee - yin mr leung siu - tong professor felice lieh mak mr mak kwai - po mr pun tin - chi mr tso kai - lok the hon yeung yiu - chung mr raymond young , deputy secretary for education and manpower mr chong kwok - kit , assistant director of education the non - official members are appointed to the preparatory committee in their personal capacity .
the preparatory committee is expected to start working soon .
over $number students go for central allocation a total of $number students have today ( tuesday ) applied for central allocation to fill the remaining $number secondary six ( s6 ) places .
the education department reminded applicants to check at the centres where they applied for central allocation and the district education offices on saturday ( $date ) to see if they have been allocated a place .
application results will be displayed at $number am . successful candidates should register with the allocated school before $number pm on the same day .
places were allocated on the basis of the applicants ' hong kong certificate of education examination results under central allocation at stage five .
if students are unable to secure a place after the completion of stage five , they may still be able to get a place at the beginning of the new school year because some successful students may decide not to take up their places .
a list of schools with s6 vacancies will be displayed and updated weekly at all district education offices throughout $date .
students should apply to these schools direct but admission will be entirely at the schools ' discretion .
meanwhile , no complaint concerning schools not following the admission procedure has been received by the department .
the department 's central hotline $number $number , $number $number and $number $number and the $number district education offices handled $number and $number enquiries respectively on the admission procedure today .
this brings to $number and $number the total number of enquiries made at the hotline and the district education offices .
trade figures involving outward processing in mainland china in $number quarter of $number , $number of hong kong 's total exports to the mainland of china were for outward processing ; the figure was $number for domestic exports , and $number for re - exports .
on the other hand , $number of hong kong 's imports from the mainland of china were related to outward processing , according to statistics released today ( tuesday ) by the census and statistics department .
over the same period , $number of hong kong 's re - exports of origin from the mainland of china to other places were produced through outward processing in the mainland of china .
the corresponding proportions for exports to the mainland in $number quarter of $number were $number for total exports , $number for domestic exports and $number for re - exports .
proportions for imports from the mainland and for re - exports of origin from the mainland to other places were $number and $number respectively .
to provide a better understanding of the nature and importance of outward processing in the mainland initiated by hong kong firms , the census and statistics department has been conducting a sample survey as from $number quarter of $number to distinguish hong kong 's exports to the mainland into those which are for outward processing and those which are not .
the scope of the survey has been extended to cover hong kong 's imports from the mainland and hong kong 's re - exports of origin from the mainland to other places from $number and $number respectively .
the results for $number quarter of $number are available .
in value terms , $ $number of hong kong 's total exports to the mainland in $number quarter of $number were for outward processing , representing an increase of $number over $number quarter of $number .
the value of domestic exports to the mainland for outward processing decreased by $number to $ $number whilst the value of re - exports to the mainland for outward processing rose by $number to $ $number .
over the same period of comparison , the value of imports from the mainland related to outward processing dropped by $number to $ $number .
on the other hand , $ $number of hong kong 's re - exports of origin from the mainland to other places were produced through outward processing in the mainland , representing an increase of $number .
for the purpose of the survey , exports to the mainland for outward processing refer to raw materials or semi - manufactures exported from or through hong kong to the mainland for processing with a contractual arrangement for subsequent re - importation of the processed goods into hong kong .
imports from the mainland related to outward processing refer to processed goods imported from the mainland , of which all or part of the raw materials or semi - manufactures have been under contractual arrangement exported from or through hong kong to the mainland for processing .
re - exports of origin from the mainland to other places involving outward processing in the mainland refer to processed goods re - exported through hong kong , of which all or part of the raw materials or semi - manufactures have been exported from or through hong kong to the mainland for processing with a contractual arrangement for subsequent re - importation of the processed goods into hong kong .
in interpreting the statistics , it should be noted that the value and proportion of imports from the mainland and re - exports of origin from the mainland to other places involving outward processing in the mainland refer to those of the entire goods instead of just the value added contributed by outward processing in the mainland .
a sample of trade declarations in respect of hong kong 's trade with the mainland and hong kong 's re - exports originated in the mainland to other places is selected for enumeration to obtain the required information from the establishments concerned .
a spokesman for the census and statistics department explained that all imports and exports of goods ( not including transhipments and goods - in - transit ) are recorded as external trade , irrespective of whether the goods are associated with outward processing or not .
the findings of the survey , however , facilitate a more informed analysis of the nature of hong kong 's trade with the mainland .
in this respect , the survey results are a useful supplement to the regular trade statistics .
the above survey results will be included in the $date issue of the " hong kong external trade " .
the report will be on sale by the end of $date at the government publications centre , queensway government offices , low block , ground floor , $number queensway , and at the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai at $ $number a copy .
enquiries on the survey results may be directed to the trade surveys and research section of the census and statistics department on telephone $number $number .
tung chung out - patient clinic to open on thursday a new general out - patient clinic set up by the department of health in tung chung will commence operation on thursday ( $date ) to provide primary health care service to the public .
" local residents will benefit from better medical and health services with the opening of the new clinic , " a spokesman for the department said .
the new clinic , tung chung general out - patient clinic , is located on $number floor of tung chung health centre at $number fu tung street , tung chung on lantau island .
the opening hours are from $number am to $number pm and $number pm to $number pm on weekdays , and $number am to $number pm on saturdays . no service will be provided on sundays and public holidays .
on the other hand , the travelling dispensary in tung chung will cease to operate on the same day ( thursday ) .
s for t starts familiarisation visits the secretary for transport , mr nicholas ng , today ( tuesday ) visited the transport department as part of a familiarisation programme to provide him with an insight into hong kong 's transport system .
mr ng met the commissioner for transport , mrs fanny law , and other directorate officers and had a general discussion on the department 's work and the various transport issues that the department is handling .
accompanied by mrs law , mr ng also called at the department 's emergency transport co - ordination centre to gain a $number - hand knowledge of its operation .
today 's visit was $number in the series since mr ng assumed office as the secretary for transport on $date . he will next call on the highways department and major public transport operators .
monitors ' report submitted to cs for administration the monitors appointed to observe the orderly repatriation programme operation this ( tuesday ) morning have submitted their report to the chief secretary for administration .
the two monitors comprised a non - official justice of the peace , mr denis chang khen - lee , sc , and representative from a non - government organisation , mrs anthea strickland from save the children fund ( hong kong ) .
garment manufacturer fined for malpractice a garment manufacturer was fined $ $number today ( tuesday ) at kwun tong magistracy for making false statements regarding the origin of goods in $number export licences and failing to comply with direction of an authorised officer .
the court was told an investigation by officers of the customs and excise department revealed that between $date and $date , victory charter industries limited falsely declared that it was the manufacturer of the $number garments in $number export licence applications and that the goods were of hong kong origin .
according to investigations by the officers , the goods were of china origin . moreover , the defendant company failed to comply with the direction of an authorised officer to produce relevant records for checking .
a spokesman for the customs and excise department said that the offences were serious .
" officers of the department will step up their enforcement actions against such malpractice in order to protect the commercial reputation of hong kong and to ensure that the confidence of its trading partners in hong kong 's textiles control system will not be undermined by some dishonest businessmen , " the spokesman added .
the maximum penalty for making a false statement in an export licence application is a fine of $ $number and two years ' imprisonment , and that for failing to comply with the direction of an authorised officer is a fine of $ $number and imprisonment for six months .
" members of the public having information on any suspected illegal textile transshipment activities could call the hotline $number $number , " he said .
two consent applications approved last month the lands department issued two pre - sale consents in respect of residential units in uncompleted developments last month ( $date ) .
the two consents were for the pre - sale of $number residential units in north point and tai po . the completion dates are $date and $date respectively .
at the end of $date , a total of $number applications for pre - sale consents involving $number residential units and seven applications in respect of commercial developments were pending approval .
these developments are located at various parts of the territory . their estimated completion dates are between $date and $date .
meanwhile , an application for consent to assign involving $number residential units in sha tin was being processed .
winding up ordered for insurance company the commissioner of insurance , mr alan wong , in his capacity as the insurance authority has presented a petition to the high court for the winding up of the hong kong branch of north atlantic insurance company limited .
the petition was heard by the high court today ( wednesday ) and an order made for the company 's winding up .
the company , which was incorporated in the united kingdom $date , has established a branch in hong kong $date .
the company has ceased underwriting new business in hong kong as from $date and has been running off its outstanding liabilities here .
the insurance authority has since then required the company to maintain assets in hong kong to meet its outstanding hong kong liabilities .
a petition for the winding up of the company was presented to the high court in england on $date and joint provisional liquidators were appointed there . in order to " ring - fence " the company 's local assets to meet its hong kong liabilities for the protection of its policy holders in hong kong , the insurance authority appointed messrs david richard hague and paul f. winkelmann as joint managers on $date to take over the company 's affairs , business and property in hong kong .
they were subsequently appointed by the court on $date as joint provisional liquidators in hong kong .
the commissioner of insurance , mr alan wong said that the assets currently in the custody of the joint provisional liquidators in hong kong would be sufficient to meet fully the local outstanding claims .
insurance claimants and other creditors of the company who may have any enquiries regarding their rights may contact the joint provisional liquidators in hong kong at $number $number during office hours .
advanced welfare payment for holidays recipients of comprehensive social security assistance (cssa) under the bank payment system will receive their payments on saturday ( $date ) if their pay days fall on the coming holidays on $date or $number .
" special payment arrangements will also be made for recipients of social security allowance whose pay days fall in this period , " a social welfare department spokesman said today ( wednesday ) .
" those who are paid through hongkongbank or hang seng bank on $date or $number can receive their payments on $date . " however , those who are paid through other banks on $date , $number or $number will get their payments on $date , " he added .
in case of doubt , recipients are advised to contact their respective social security field units .
transport secretary visits highways department the secretary for transport , mr nicholas ng , today ( wednesday ) continued with his familiarisation visits by calling at the highways department to have an update on its work .
mr ng met the director of highways , mr leung kwok - sun , and other directorate officers . he was briefed on the major projects undertaken by the department , the work of its lantau fixed crossing management office and recent railway developments .
accompanied by mr leung , he also visited the department 's reporting centre and emergency control centre .
mr ng will next visit major public transport operators in hong kong .
metrication committee sets up counter in the food expo members of the public are invited to visit the metric scale demonstration counter at $number food expo which opens tomorrow ( thursday ) to acquaint themselves with the metric system .
an opening ceremony of the counter will be held at $number pm in the lower exhibition hall , level $number , hong kong convention and exhibition centre , $number harbour road , wan chai .
officiating guests will include mr k y tongson , chairman of the metrication committee ; mr tommy y s li , chairman of the working group on food expo and vice - chairman of the committee ; miss elizabeth tse , principal assistant secretary for trade and industry ; ms lai suen , a veteran actress ; ms leung toi - ling , a gourmet ; and mr godfrey leung , manager ( exhibitions ) of trade development council .
during the five - day event , the metrication committee will organise a number of activities which include a cooking demonstration of a nutritious recipe in metric units by ms lai suen at $number pm on saturday ( $date ) , a variety of stage shows and computer games at the counter .
members of the public are welcome to take part in the activities which will last until next monday ( $date ) . attractive prizes will be given to the participants .
chief executive to renew ties with our trading partners the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , will visit malaysia , singapore , the united states , japan , belgium and the uk in the next two months to renew ties with our trading partners and update them on developments in hong kong after the handover .
during these visits , mr tung will call on political and business leaders , and brief them on the smooth transition in hong kong to demonstrate our pride to return to china and our confidence in " hong kong people ruling hong kong " under the " one country , two systems " concept .
mr tung will be in kuala lumpur on $date and call on prime minister dr mahathir mohamad . he will be in singapore on $date and call on prime minister goh chok tong .
mr tung will be in the united states from $date to $number . he will visit washington and new york .
in washington , mr tung looks forward to meeting with president clinton .
mr tung will also officiate at the opening ceremony of the new office premises of the hong kong economic and trade office in washington .
mr tung will be in tokyo from $date to $number . he will call on ministers , parliamentarians and senior officials of the japanese government .
he will then leave for europe on $date and visit brussels and london before returning to hong kong on $date .
in brussels , mr tung will call on the president of the european commission , mr jacques santer , and attend the trade development council annual dinner in europe .
he also hopes to meet with belgian ministers .
in london , mr tung looks forward to meeting with prime minister tony blair .
mr tung will be speaking at a number of functions in various destinations . he will reassure overseas audiences of our continued role as an active regional and global player in international trade , commerce and finance .
he will also welcome international investors to come to hong kong to take advantage of the enormous business opportunities here as hong kong becomes part of china .
ce meets xinhua news agency hong kong branch director the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , held a meeting with the director of the xinhua news agency hong kong branch , mr jiang enzhu , this ( thursday ) afternoon .
cordial and friendly exchanges were made during the hour - long meeting .
congratulating mr jiang on his appointment as the director of the xinhua news agency hong kong branch , mr tung said : " the agency has done a lot in the past decades to promote the link between hong kong people and the mainland as well as to enhance local people 's understanding of china , particularly since hong kong moved into the transition period .
xinhua has played an important role and made significant contribution to hong kong 's stability , prosperity and smooth transition . "
" with the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region , hong kong has entered a new era in history . there is still much to be done to foster the link between the people of hong kong and their mainland counterparts , and to enhance mutual trust and understanding . "
he strongly believed that under mr jiang 's leadership , the xinhua news agency hong kong branch would contribute even more to the continued prosperity and stability of hong kong .
during the meeting , mr jiang said since the establishment of the sar more than a month ago , the government led by the chief executive had been making steady progress in various aspects .
with a stable society and a thriving economy , people had been fully confident of hong kong 's future , he said .
he also wished the sar continued success .
mr jiang said the xinhua news agency hong kong branch had maintained a good relationship with the hksar .
noting that hong kong practised " one country , two systems " , " hong kong people ruling hong kong " and " a high degree of autonomy " , mr jiang said the agency would not interfere with matters which fell in the domain of the high degree of autonomy of the sar government , but would co - operate with the sarg and support its work .
he added that the agency would maintain extensive contacts with people from various walks of life in hong kong . it would continue its efforts in enhancing communication and interflow between the two places so as to maintain the long - term prosperity and stability of hong kong .
$number ) bill to be gazetted the hong kong court of final appeal ( amendment ) ( no.
$number ) bill $number will be gazetted tomorrow ( friday ) .
the purpose of the bill is to amend the hong kong court of final appeal ordinance to provide that where no permanent judge can be appointed to act for the chief justice when he is ill or absent , because there is no such judge who is " eligible to be appointed as the chief justice " , the chief executive is to appoint the next most senior permanent judge to act , even though he is not so eligible .
section $number ( $number ) of the hong kong court of final appeal ordinance provides that where the chief justice is ill or absent for any cause , the chief executive shall appoint the next most senior permanent judge who is eligible to be appointed as the chief justice , to act as chief justice .
section $number ( 1 a ) of the ordinance further provides that in order for a person to be eligible to be appointed as the chief justice , he must be a chinese citizen who is a permanent resident of the hong kong special administrative region with no right of abode in any foreign country .
a government spokesman explained : " however , at present none of the permanent judges of the court of final appeal is eligible to act as the chief justice because they cannot fulfil the requirement set out in section $number ( 1 a ) .
" we have therefore proposed to amend the ordinance to avoid the undesirable situation where the post of chief justice may have to be left vacant with no one to perform the various statutory functions of the chief justice in his absence . "
ed action includes issuing warning letters to the school heads and supervisors concerned , and recording the malpractice on file . the department 's firm stance will also be made clear to the chairpersons of the relevant school sponsoring bodies . their track record , including any malpractice , will be taken into consideration when they apply to operate new schools in future .
speaking to reporters after opening an induction programme for newly recruited teachers , the director of education , mrs helen c p lai yu , said : " such 'advance admission ' is unethical and disgraceful . " it is unfair to students . it is not in keeping with professional practice expected of schools or the education sector .
we take a serious view of such malpractice , " mrs yu said . if a case is substantiated , the education department will issue warning letters to the school and to the supervisor concerned .
the chairpersons of the school sponsoring bodies will also be informed .
if the sponsoring body applies for allocation of new schools in future , their past record including any malpractice will be taken into account .
mrs yu hoped that the above actions will help prevent violation of admission procedures and promote fair practice among schools .
as for a suggestion to reduce subvention for offending schools or naming the schools , mrs yu commented that such measures would penalise other students in the school .
the secondary six admission procedures is reviewed every year and all areas for practicable improvement are considered to ensure a fair and effective mechanism for students to seek school places .
at the same time , further deterrents and sanctions will be considered in order to promote good practice .
it has been suggested that the education department should freeze the salary increments for the school head in question . the department will be examining the feasibility and implications of the suggestion .
action plan to tackle flooding in tai po actions are being taken to minimise flooding caused by torrential rain in the shuen wan area in the northeastern part of the new territories .
at an interdepartmental meeting at the tai po district office today ( thursday ) to discuss the recent serious flooding situation in the area , an immediate action plan to tackle the problem was drawn up and longer - term measures were also discussed .
district officer ( tai po ) , mr frankie lui , who chaired the interdepartmental meeting said that the government departments concerned had been aware that the low - lying area affected was prone to flooding and a number of drainage improvement measures had already been carried out before the flooding incident occurred .
" but the unprecedented $number millimetres of rainfall recorded in tai po on $date coupled with the blockage of the wai ha stream created flash floods in some villages , affecting wong yue tan , chim uk , lee uk , san tau kok , an shan and tseng tau , " mr lui added .
the action plan agreed by the interdepartmental working group to prevent a recurrence of serious flooding will include : - immediate improvement works to facilitate outflow to the sea at the outlet of the wai ha stream ; - inspections of village house building sites in the area , to warn building contractors against illegal dumping and to take enforcement action as necessary ; - stepping up clean - up operations and publicising against littering in the area ; - engineering works to protect and reinforce the embankment of the streamm course ; - installation of grills in front of the box culvert of wai ha stream to prevent blockage of the culvert .
the meeting , convened by the tai po district officer and involving officials from drainage services department , highways department , tai po district lands office , regional services department , the nt north project manager 's office and the lands department , also agreed to look into longer - term measures to prevent serious flooding in the area .
" the meeting agreed to consider the feasibility of carrying out more extensive drainage improvement works under the rural planning improvement strategy and to review the drainage system under the ting kok road upgrading project to ensure that the system will not be easily blocked in future .
" equally important , we shall be consulting with village representatives in the affected area on the proposed anti - flooding measures and seeking their comments and suggestions , " mr lui said .
slope maintenance exhibition opens in tuen mun a six - day exhibition on slope safety and maintenance will begin tomorrow ( friday ) at the tuen mun town plaza . organised by the geotechnical engineering office of the civil engineering department , the exhibition aims to promote public awareness of the importance of slope maintenance and safety .
the exhibition will feature various aspects of slope maintenance and safety through the display of colourful illustrations , photographs and a video .
information on landslip warning messages , warning signs , evidence of landslip danger and precautionary measures will also be displayed .
interesting quiz games will be set up for visitors while balloons carrying slope safety message will be distributed to members of the public during the weekend .
residents can also take home leaflets on slope safety and maintenance .
the exhibition will be open from $number pm to $number pm tomorrow , and between $number am and $number pm from saturday ( $date ) until wednesday ( $date ) on $number floor of tuen mun town plaza .
admission is free .
a similar exhibition will be staged at sha tin new town plaza between $date ( tuesday ) and $number ( monday ) .
yet another rain record goes with $date not even half way through , it was official that $number eight months of $number were already the wettest ever on record .
by $number am today ( thursday ) , the running rainfall total at the hong kong observatory since the beginning of the year had reached $number millimetres , soaring past the previous record of $number millimetres registered $date .
a wet spell generated by the moist southwest monsoon , in addition to the rain brought by typhoon victor earlier in the month , meant that rainfall figure so far this month has already exceeded the $date normal of $number millimetres .
this followed hard on the heel of an exceptionally wet $date and $date whose monthly totals were both more than twice the normal figures .
in fact , the combined $date and $date rainfall total of $number millimetres already went into the record books as the highest ever .
the normal annual rainfall for hong kong is $number millimetres .
hong kong 's external trade statistics for $date the census and statistics department today ( thursday ) released detailed statistics on external trade with breakdown by country / territory and commodity for $date .
in $date , the value of re - exports increased by $number over a year earlier to $ $number , while that of domestic exports increased by $number to $ $number .
meanwhile , imports increased by $number to $ $number .
comparing $date with $date , increases were recorded in the value of re - exports to taiwan ( $number ) , the mainland of china ( $number ) , the united states ( $number ) , the united kingdom ( $number ) , france ( $number ) , the netherlands ( $number ) , japan ( $number ) and singapore ( $number ) .
however , the value of re - exports to south korea and germany decreased by $number and $number respectively .
comparing $number half of $number with the same period of $number , increases were recorded in the value of re - exports to taiwan ( $number ) , the united states ( $number ) , the netherlands ( $number ) , the united kingdom ( $number ) , the mainland of china ( $number ) , singapore ( $number ) and france ( $number ) .
however , decreases were recorded in the value of re - exports to germany ( $number ) , south korea ( $number ) and japan ( $number ) .
taking all destinations together , the value of re - exports in $number half of $number , at $ $number , increased by $number over the same period $date .
comparing $number half of $number with the same period of $number , more notable increases in the value of re - exports were registered for office machines and automatic data processing machines ( by $ $number or $number ) ; clothing ( by $ $number or $number ) ; electrical machinery , apparatus and appliances , and electrical parts thereof ( by $ $number or $number ) ; textiles ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and miscellaneous manufactured articles consisting mainly of baby carriages , toys , games and sporting goods ( by $ $number or $number ) .
over the same period , decreases in the value of re - exports were registered for telecommunications and sound recording and reproducing apparatus and equipment ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and plastics in primary forms ( by $ $number or $number ) .
comparing $date with $date , increases were recorded in the value of domestic exports to france ( $number ) , the mainland of china ( $number ) , the netherlands ( $number ) , canada ( $number ) , the united states ( $number ) , taiwan ( $number ) and japan ( $number ) .
however , decreases were recorded in the value of domestic exports to singapore ( $number ) , germany ( $number ) and the united kingdom ( $number ) .
comparing $number half of $number with the same period of $number , increases were recorded in the value of domestic exports to france ( $number ) , the netherlands ( $number ) and the mainland of china ( $number ) .
however , decreases were recorded in the value of domestic exports to singapore ( $number ) , taiwan ( $number ) , japan ( $number ) , germany ( $number ) , canada ( $number ) , the united states ( $number ) and the united kingdom ( $number ) .
taking all destinations together , the value of domestic exports in $number half of $number , at $ $number , decreased by $number over the same period $date .
comparing $number half of $number with the same period of $number , more notable decreases in the value of domestic exports were registered for office machines and automatic data processing machines ( by $ $number or $number ) ; photographic apparatus , equipment and supplies , optical goods , watches and clocks ( by $ $number or $number ) ; textiles ( by $ $number or $number ) ; miscellaneous manufactured articles consisting mainly of jewellery , goldsmiths ' and silversmiths ' wares ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and manufactures of metals ( by $ $number or $number ) .
over the same period , more notable increases in the value of domestic exports were registered for professional , scientific and controlling instruments and apparatus ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and electrical machinery , apparatus and appliances , and electrical parts thereof ( by $ $number or $number ) .
comparing $date with $date , increases were recorded in the value of imports from malaysia ( $number ) , the united kingdom ( $number ) , italy ( $number ) , germany ( $number ) , japan ( $number ) , the mainland of china ( $number ) , taiwan ( $number ) and south korea ( $number ) .
however , the value of imports from the united states and singapore decreased by $number and $number respectively .
comparing $number half of $number with the same period of $number , increases were recorded in the value of imports from the united kingdom ( $number ) , malaysia ( $number ) , germany ( $number ) , the mainland of china ( $number ) , japan ( $number ) , the united states ( $number ) and italy ( $number ) .
however , decreases were recorded in the value of imports from taiwan ( $number ) , south korea ( $number ) and singapore ( $number ) .
taking all sources together , the value of imports in $number half of $number , at $ $number , increased by $number over the same period $date .
over the same period , a more notable decrease in the value of imports was recorded for general industrial machinery and equipment , and machine parts ( by $ $number or $number ) .
all the trade statistics described here are measured at current prices and no account has been taken of changes in prices between the periods of comparison .
a separate analysis of the volume and price movements of external trade for $date will be released in early $date .
detailed trade statistics analysed by commodity and by country / territory are published in trade statistics reports .
the $date issue of the " hong kong external trade " with detailed analyses on the performance of hong kong 's external trade in $date will be on sale at $ $number per copy around $date .
the report can be purchased at either (i) the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong , or (ii) the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
enquiries regarding regular subscription to this report may be directed to the publications ( sales ) office , $number floor , siu on centre , $number lockhart road , wan chai , hong kong ( tel .
no. $number $number ) and enquiries on trade statistics to the census and statistics department ( tel . no. $number $number ) .
business prospects for $number half of $number manufacturers generally expect a slight increase in volume of orders in $number half of $number compared with the same period $date , according to the results of a recent half - yearly business prospects survey released today ( thursday ) by the census and statistics department .
analysed by manufacturing industry , manufacturers in the electronic and electrical products , the electrical machinery and the printing industries generally expect a moderate increase in volume of orders , whereas manufacturers in the wearing apparel and the fabricated metal products industries anticipate a fairly stable volume of orders .
in general , manufacturers expect capacity utilisation to remain stable in $number half of $number compared with $number half .
profit margins , however , are expected to be lower in $number half of $number compared with the same period a year ago .
exporters anticipate a moderate increase in both the values of domestic exports and re - exports in $number half of $number compared with the same period last year .
similar views are held by bankers , who expect that the value of total exports will increase moderately .
looking ahead , construction firms generally expect a moderate increase in volume of construction output in $number half of $number compared with the same period $date .
the survey is held on a half - yearly basis , covering $number firms from major manufacturing industries , the import / export trades , the banking industry and the construction sector .
it collects views of firms on the short - term prospects of the various major business sectors covered and aims at providing a quick reference , with a minimum time lag , for assessing the short - term future economic performance of hong kong .
a spokesman for the department cautioned that , in a survey of this nature , the results should be interpreted with care as it is difficult to establish precisely the extent to which respondents ' perception of the future accords with the underlying trends .
the survey results are published in greater detail in the " report on half - yearly business prospects survey , $date " .
the report is on sale at $ $number a copy at the government publications centre , low block , ground floor , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong , or at the census and statistics department publications unit , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries about the survey results may be made to the general economic surveys section of the census and statistics department at $number $number .
new requirements for fire safety in lift works lift contractors are now required to give notice to relevant government departments before they can carry out any major lift alteration , addition or replacement works in existing buildings .
speaking at a seminar on the new requirements to enhance fire safety today ( thursday ) , chief electrical and mechanical engineer of the electrical and mechanical services department (emsd) , mr law yu - wing , said these departments included the buildings department (bd) , fire services department (fsd) , labour department (ld) and the emsd .
" the new requirement will enable these departments to carry out inspection on site to ensure adequate fire safety precautions are in place and the works are in compliance with the safety requirements , " mr law said .
" the new arrangement has been agreed by lift contractors ' associations and is contained in a circular distributed to all lift contractors , " he said .
also speaking at the seminar , acting chief building surveyor , mr alex chow kim - ping , said the buildings department had recently issued a " practice note on maintenance and replacement works of lift installations " to building contractors .
" the note specifies the fire safety requirements for protecting the integrity of lift shafts in order to inhibit the spread of fire between floor compartments through the lift shafts and openings , " he said .
" for lift maintenance or replacement works in particular , temporary hoarding which can withstand fire for at least one hour should be provided if landing doors have to be removed .
" moreover , scaffoldings made of non - combustible materials should be used for working in lift well , " he added .
senior electrical and mechanical engineer of the labour department , mr chan wing - cheung , said the department had issued leaflets and safety guidelines on welding and cutting in lift maintenance and replacement works .
the seminar was jointly held by emsd , bd , ld and fsd .
a working group comprising representatives from the government departments , the lift and escalator contractors association and the registered elevator & escalator contractors association was formed to devise these new fire prevention measures for carrying out lift maintenance and replacement works in existing buildings following the garley building fire on $date .
about $number representatives from $number lift contractors , engineers ' institutes and associations in the trade attended the seminar this afternoon at emsd 's headquarters .
$number annual stamp pack and album on sale the acting postmaster general , mr p c luk , announced today ( thursday ) that the $number annual stamp pack and the $number prestige annual stamp album will be put on sale by the end of $date .
there will be $number stamp packs and $number prestige albums available for sale .
in view of the anticipated overwhelming response , these two products will be sold by computer balloting .
the annual stamp pack will be sold at hk $ $number .
it contains one set each of all the following special stamps issued $date : - year of the rat ( souvenir sheet ) $number olympic games - archaeological finds of hong kong - hong kong mountains - hong kong urban heritage the annual stamp album will be sold at hk $ $number .
it is a complete collection of all the special stamps and definite stamp sheetlets issued $date and includes detailed descriptions of the stamp themes and commemorative events .
a complimentary card is enclosed to enable the album to be used as a gift item .
mr luk said : " to enter the ballot , all one needs to do is to complete the entry form and put it in the drop - in box at any post office , or simply mail it back to the post office before $date ( monday ) .
" entry forms will be available in our counter offices as from tomorrow ( friday ) .
alternatively , customers may use the form printed in the newspaper advertisement , photocopies are also acceptable . "
there will be separate ballot for each product .
entry is restricted to hong kong identity (id) card holders and only one form can be submitted per id card . a customer can apply for a maximum of one pack each .
" to find out if the application has been successful , customers can call our $number - hour enquiry hotline $number from $date ( saturday ) .
customers can collect the product from $date ( monday ) to $date ( saturday ) from the philatelic office which they have selected at the time of application .
products not claimed after $date will be considered null and void , " mr luk said .
outstanding volunteers heading for kagoshima $number outstanding volunteers in summer youth programme will set off to kagoshima , japan on monday ( $date ) for a $number - day study tour .
announcing details of the tour today ( thursday ) , mr norman lo , the chairman of summer youth programme committee , said the summer youth programme scholarship was set up $date with the objective to encourage youngsters to make use of their leisure time to serve the community .
" through participating in voluntary service , youngsters are not only helping those in need , they are also learning how to get along with other people and equipping themselves for their own future " , mr lo said .
these outstanding volunteers have been awarded the scholarship and will be the youth ambassadors of hong kong . during the tour , they will present different issues of hong kong , including education , social welfare , medical services , housing , transportation and recreation to japanese people .
the group will meet the mayor of kanoya city and the governor of kagoshima prefecture and visit youth institutes , government departments and other social and community establishments .
they will even have chances to stay with some japanese families for three days .
among the $number awardees this year , $number opted to join the study tour while the rest preferred to enrol in local outward bound courses .
in the past $number years , $number youth volunteers had benefited from the summer youth programme scholarship award scheme sponsored by the hong kong jockey club charities trust .
air quality report for $date released the environmental protection department today ( thursday ) released air quality information for $date .
the information shows no violation of the air quality objective values in the month .
no gaseous monitoring was performed in the mong kok station $number of the month as it was shut down for modifications during the period .
the report includes the monitoring results from mong kok , central / western and kwai chung , which represent three important land use types in the territory : * locations close to road traffic in built - up urban areas ; * combined commercial and residential districts ; and * districts close to industrial areas .
air pollutants reported included sulphur dioxide , nitrogen dioxide , total suspended particulates , and the respirable suspended particulates .
all these pollutants can affect respiratory health in sufficient concentration .
air pollution originated from various sources , including combustion , industrial and construction processes .
in terms of impact on local air quality , motor vehicle exhaust is the most important source of nitrogen dioxide and airborne particulate matter , especially the smaller respirable particles .
promotion of metrication in food expo hong kong people should follow the international trend to adopt the metric system , especially when hong kong has been reunified with china since $date .
the vice - chairman of the metrication committee , mr tommy li , made the appeal at the opening ceremony of the metric scale demonstration counter at $number food expo held at the hong kong convention and exhibition centre today ( thursday ) .
" as our slogan goes : ' don 't be left behind ! go metric ' , " mr li said , " hong kong has now been reunified with china , the use of the metric system in hong kong may enhance communication with the mainland where the metric units have been employed . "
the metrication committee sets up the metric scale demonstration counter at the food expo with a view to familiarising members of the public with the measuring units .
and food expo is an interesting and effective forum whereby the idea of going metric in one 's daily life can be conveyed to all walks of life in hong kong through games and counter demonstration , mr li said .
during the five - day event , the committee will organise a number of activities to promote metrication . the focus will be a cooking demonstration of a nutritious recipe by actress ms lai suen at $number pm on saturday ( $date ) . the recipe was specially created by ms leung toi - ling , a columnist specialising in nutritious food .
members of the public are welcome to take part in the activities which will last until next monday ( $date ) . attractive prizes will be given to the participants .
officiating at today 's opening ceremony included mr k y tongson , chairman of the metrication committee ; miss elizabeth tse , principal assistant secretary for trade and industry ; mr godfrey leung , manager ( exhibitions ) of trade development council ; ms lai suen and ms leung toi - ling .
for enquiries on the work of the metrication committee and related matters , please call the committee 's hotline on $number $number .
ce 's statement on the boat incident in the philippines the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( friday ) he was saddened to learn of the boat incident involving a number of hong kong residents in the philippines .
he noted that the chinese embassy in the philippines was in contact with the philippine government and had sent embassy staff to get more information and provide assistance to the victims .
mr tung send his deepest condolences to family members of the victims and said the sar government stood ready to offer them all necessary assistance .
legislative council bill endorsed by exco the secretary for constitutional affairs , mr michael suen , today ( friday ) announced that the legislative council bill , which provided a legal basis for $number legislative council ( legco ) election next year , has been endorsed by the chief executive in council and will be introduced into the provisional legislative council on wednesday ( $date ) for $number and $number readings .
speaking in a press conference to announce the relevant details of the bill , mr suen said that the government expected that $number legislative council election would take place in late may next year .
mr suen stressed that the clear and consistent objective of the sar government was to ensure that elections take place on an open , fair and honest basis , so that all candidates could compete on a level playing field . the legislative council bill was drafted with precisely this objective in mind .
having carefully considered the views of the community , the government have completed drafting the relevant electoral legislation . mr suen explained that the bill provided a legal basis for the overall arrangements for the legislative council election , and for matters such as the delineation of the electorate of the functional constituencies and the election committee .
in delineating the functional constituency electorate , the government has carefully considered public views collected during last month 's consultation exercise in drawing up the proposals in the bill . the government has also taken into account the unique nature and characteristics of each functional constituency and has tried to accommodate , as far as possible , the views of the public within the framework of the traditional concept and standards .
on the formation of the election committee , the great majority of the $number members making up the election committee will be chosen through election from within the relevant sub - sectors . the electoral affairs commission , which will soon be established , will supervise the electoral process .
" there are two categories of individuals who will join the election committee through other arrangements .
$number , in accordance with the recommendation of the preparatory committee , all hong kong deputies to the national people 's congress and all members of the provisional legislative council will automatically become members of the election committee , " mr suen said .
" secondly , having regard to its unique nature , the bill proposes that representatives of the religious sub - sector should be returned through nomination .
the nomination procedure will be subject to regulations to be made by the electoral affairs commission . "
turning to voter registration , mr suen pointed out that after many years of efforts , the old voter register now contains $number registered voters .
" to facilitate voters , the bill has provided for transitional arrangements for the compilation of the voter register .
all electors in the old register will automatically be included in next year 's voter register and thus become voters for $number sar legco election , provided that they meet the new qualifications for electors , " he said .
" on the other hand , we will be vetting the particulars of electors in the old register . any persons who do not meet the new registration requirements ( for example , persons who do not meet the definition of " permanent resident of the sar " under the basic law ) will not be included in the new register .
" at the same time , we will be mounting a major registration exercise between $date and $date ; the aim of the exercise is to register more electors and to update the particulars of electors already registered . "
for this to happen , the government must $number to complete a number of key steps .
for example , the electoral affairs commission will need to submit recommendations on geographical boundaries to the chief executive by the end of $date ; voter registration will need to take place between the end of this year and next $date ; the voter register will need to be published before mid - $date ; and the election committee must be established in early $date .
" a number of the key steps and their deadlines are set out in law .
at the same time , all the key steps are inter - linked . this means that the progress of each key step would have a direct impact on that of the other .
for example , the electoral affairs commission cannot take formal steps to draw up recommendations on geographical boundaries until the number of geographical constituencies is determined . there is no certainty on the latter , however , until the legislative council bill is passed . "
finally , mr suen said that the government would earnestly hope that the provisional legislative council would quickly complete the relevant legislative procedure so as to provide the necessary legal basis for the range of preparatory work .
lab members discussed three suspended labour laws members of the labour advisory board (lab) today ( friday ) concluded that two of the three labour ordinances which had been suspended by the provisional legislative council on $date should not be brought into operation while the remaining one should be modified .
the two ordinances that should not be brought into operation are the employee 's rights to representation , consultation and collective bargaining ordinance and the employment ( amendment ) ( no.4 ) ordinance $number .
the ordinance which should be modified is the trade unions ( amendment ) ( no.2 ) ordinance $number .
in the meeting , members also discussed and gave their views on the employment ( amendment ) ( no.5 ) ordinance $number and the occupational deafness ( compensation ) ( amendment ) ordinance $number .
speaking after the lab meeting , the chairman , commissioner for labour , miss jacqueline willis , said that with regard to the employee 's rights to representation , consultation and collective bargaining ordinance , having considered the present circumstances of hong kong , majority of lab members arrived at the following view : - it is not appropriate to bring this ordinance into operation ; - the lab will continue to explore modes of negotiation and collective bargaining best suited to hong kong .
on the employment ( amendment ) ( no.4 ) ordinance $number , miss willis said all members agreed that : - there is no need to bring this ordinance into effect as similar protection to employees against dismissal due to trade unions membership and participation in unions activities is already provided for under the employment ( amendment ) ( no.
$number ) ordinance $number which was drawn up on the basis of the consensus reached by the lab and came into operation on $date ; and - the committee on labour relations should review the employment ( amendment ) ( no.
$number ) ordinance $number one year after it has come into effect , in particular the provisions on re - instatement . on the trade unions ( amendment ) ( no.
$number ) ordinance $number , miss willis said , having reviewed the provisions on statutory holidays under the employment ordinance , all members agreed that : - in view of the change of sovereignty , $date and $date should be made statutory holidays in place of the existing two floating holidays ; - majority of the members agreed that $date should be an additional statutory holiday from $number .
as regards the occupational deafness compensation scheme , miss willis said , the lab has considered the government 's package of improvements and the financial implication and agreed that : - employer and employee members agreed on a package of improvement items which was proposed by a working group on review of the scheme and accepted by the government , to expand the coverage of the scheme and to streamline its operational procedures .
noting that improvements should be introduced progressively , all members agreed to replace schedule $number , which was revised by the occupational deafness ( compensation ) ( amendment ) ordinance $number , by the government 's proposal .
schedule $number is a table to translate different levels of hearing loss into percentages of permanent incapacity ; - one of the major improvements is to add eight noisy occupations to the existing list of $number specified noisy occupations for which compensation is payable under the scheme .
it is estimated that $number employees are employed under these eight occupations .
in addition , there would be arrangements to waive the requirement for claimants to pay for the cost of hearing test and medical examination ; - members also agreed on a transitional arrangement to allow those persons who would not be qualified for compensation because they have left employment in noisy occupation for $number months $date to apply for compensation within a certain period ; - the lab has reached a consensus to increase the rate of levy on employees compensation insurance premium by $number percentage point from the existing $number per cent to become $number per cent .
the purpose is to enable the occupational deafness compensation board to pay compensation as they are due and to improve the scheme ; - the scheme will be reviewed two years after the implementation of the improvement package ; and - the labour department will work on the necessary legislative amendments based on the consensus reached in the lab .
as regards the occupational safety and health council 's (oshc) proposal to increase the rate of employees ' compensation insurance (eci) levy , members recognised that oshc had contributed significantly to improving the overall industrial safety and health standards since its establishment .
after deliberation , they supported a $number increase in the eci levy for the council on the understanding that it would run out of cash in early $number .
release of s6 central allocation results current school year hong kong certificate of education examination (hkcee) students who applied for secondary six ( s6 ) central allocation are reminded to check the results at any of the eight registration centres or district education offices from $number am tomorrow ( saturday ) .
a total of $number secondary five students satisfying the minimum a - level entry requirements have applied for the remaining $number s6 places at stage v. places were allocated on the basis of the applicants ' hkcee results , choices of school , match of streams and subjects , and requirements set out by the schools .
the education department reminded successful candidates that they should register with the allocated school before $number pm tomorrow .
students who are still unable to secure a place after the completion of stage v might be able to get one at the beginning of the new school year in $date because some successful students might decide not to take up their places by that time .
a list of schools with s6 places will be displayed and updated weekly at all district education offices throughout $date .
students should apply to these schools direct but admission will be entirely at the schools ' discretion .
unemployment and underemployment statistics released the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate for the period of $date remained the same as the provisional figure of $number released last month , while the underemployment rate was revised marginally upwards by $number of a percentage point from the provisional figure to $number , according to the latest labour force statistics released today ( friday ) by the census and statistics department .
for the period of may to $date , the provisional seasonally adjusted unemployment rate remained stable at $number , while the provisional underemployment rate was slightly lower , at $number .
commenting on these figures , a government secretariat spokesman said that overall labour market conditions , whilst already generally tight , remained stable in recent months .
for the latest period of may to $date , declines in the unemployment rate were seen in the construction , import / export trades , and transport sectors , while increases were found in the restaurants and hotels , and business services sectors .
as to the underemployment rate , the decline was concentrated in the manufacturing and construction sectors .
the spokesman also pointed out that overall labour demand remained firm on the back of further growth in the economy .
in the three months ending $date , total employment rose by $number over a year earlier , considerably faster than the growth of $number in total labour force .
during the period of $date , the number of unemployed persons was estimated at $number , and the number of underemployed persons at $number .
the unemployment and underemployment statistics were obtained from a continuous general household survey .
the survey for $date covered a quarterly sample of some $number households or $number persons , selected scientifically to represent the land - based civilian non - institutional population in hong kong .
data were obtained from the survey by interviewing each member aged $number or above in the households sampled .
in the survey , the definitions used in measuring unemployment and underemployment follow closely those recommended by the international labour organisation .
the 'seasonally adjusted ' unemployment rate refers to the fact that the unemployment rate has been adjusted for seasonal variations in the proportion of $number - time job - seekers in the labour force .
detailed analysis of labour force characteristics is given in the report on the general household survey which is published four times a year .
the next report covering the quarter ending $date will be on sale at the government publications centre at ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong , by the end of $date .
special topics report no. $number on social statistics special topics report no. $number on social statistics is published today ( friday ) .
it contains the findings of five special enquiries conducted by the census and statistics department via the general household survey in different periods between $date and $date .
the five topics are " hong kong residents married in mainland china " ; " cigarette smoking pattern " ; " public awareness of the concept of energy efficiency " ; " public awareness of the office of the ombudsman " ; and " hong kong residents ' health status and doctor consultation " .
the report is on sale at $ $number per copy . it can be purchased at the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong , and at the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
road improvement works in tuen mun the territory development department will carry out a series of road improvement works in tuen mun .
the works will include the construction of a new bypass road from tuen mun area $number near butterfly beach to the interchange of lung mun road and wong chu road along the foothills of castle peak .
realignment works will also be carried out at the existing slip road from tuen mun road ( tuen mun bound ) to wong chu road , a section of siu lun street near siu lun court , a section of lung mun road near san shek wan light rail transit station , the access tracks near san shek wan tsuen as well as a section of lung mun road near butterfly beach .
in addition , noise barriers ranging from three to five metres in height and noise enclosures of $number metres in length and $number metres in height will be built along wong chu road and tuen mun road interchange .
the works form part of the port development in tuen mun which will provide the necessary access to river trade terminal and special industrial developments in tuen mun area $number near siu lang shui .
site formation works for ma on shan development the territory development department will carry out extensive infrastructural works in ma on shan to facilitate development of the area .
the works will comprise site formation and construction of about four kilometres of roads , a road bridge , a pedestrian subway , drainage systems and associated landscaping works in areas $number and $number of ma on shan .
upon completion , the area will be available for housing development to accommodate $number residents .
works will begin in $date for completion in $number months .
open air car park in stanley proposed the highways department today ( friday ) proposes to construct an open air car park in front of no. $number stanley village road , stanley .
the proposed car park will have $number parking spaces to alleviate the shortage of car parking spaces in stanley .
the proposed works will also include : * construction of a carriageway connecting stanley village road and the car park ; * widening a section of stanley village road to facilitate the access of the proposed car park ; and * construction of associated footpaths and ancillary works including landscaping , drainage and slope .
a notice concerning the proposed car park was published in the sar government gazette today .
the plan and scheme of the proposed works can be inspected during office hours at : * public enquiry services centre , central and western district office , ground floor , harbour building , $number pier road , central ; * hong kong south district lands office , southorn centre , $number floor , $number hennessy road , wan chai ; * southern district office , shop $number , ground floor , mei fung court , aberdeen centre , $number nam ning street , aberdeen .
any person who wishes to object to the works or the use , or both is required to address his objection in writing to the secretary for transport , $number floor , east wing , central government offices , lower albert road , central , hong kong before $date .
footbridge across boundary street proposed the highways department today ( friday ) proposes to construct a footbridge across boundary street at embankment road , kowloon .
the project comprises the construction of a $number - metre wide covered footbridge across boundary street at embankment road with ramps and staircases at both ends , as well as the ancillary drainage and landscaping works .
the proposed footbridge will improve road capacity and enhance the safety of pedestrians crossing boundary street .
the work is programmed to start in mid $number and to complete in $number months .
a notice of the proposal was published in the government gazette today .
the plan and scheme for the proposed works can be inspected during office hours at : * public enquiry services centre , central and western district offices , ground floor , harbour building , $number pier road , central , hong kong . * kowloon east , district lands office , yau ma tei car park building , $number floor , $number shanghai street , kowloon ; and * kowloon city district office , room $number one harbourfront , $number tak fung street , hung hom , kowloon .
any person who wishes to object to the works or the use , or both is required to address his objection in writing to the secretary for transport , $number floor , east wing , central government offices , lower albert road , central , hong kong before $date .
office of the commissioner of insurance launches homepage the office of the commissioner of insurance today ( friday ) launched its $number homepage on the internet to provide up - to - date information on hong kong 's insurance industry and the regulatory framework supervising the industry 's operation .
the new homepage also provides information on the work of the office relating to occupational retirement schemes .
in response to the growing popularity of the internet , the office of the commissioner of insurance has decided to use the internet as an additional channel for communication with the public , locally and overseas alike .
information on a wide range of topics on the insurance and occupational retirement schemes industries of hong kong , in both english and chinese , can be found in the homepage .
there is also a special section , " hong kong - - an ideal captive centre " , which aims at promoting hong kong as a captive insurance centre in the asia pacific region .
highlights of the regulatory concessions offered to captive insurance companies are set out in this section .
enquiries through the internet are welcomed .
statistical data concerning the insurance and occupational retirement schemes industries of hong kong , together with the statutory forms , can be downloaded from the internet for reference or use .
the address of the website is http://www.oci.gov.hk .
seminar to promote fire prevention members of the public , mutual aid committees and owners ' corporations in tuen mun are invited to participate in a building management seminar on fire safety and building maintenance . the event , jointly organised by the tuen mun district office and the working group concerning building management under the commerce , industry and labour affairs committee of the tuen mun provisional district board , will be held on $date ( friday ) from $number pm to $number pm on $number floor of the cultural activities hall , tuen mun town hall , $number tuen hi road , tuen mun .
representatives from the buildings department , the hong kong institute of surveyors and the fire services department will give talks respectively on " unauthorised building works " , " strategies on building maintenance and repairs " and " fire safety at home " .
they will also answer questions from the participants and engage in a floor discussion .
admission tickets will be distributed from tuesday ( $date ) on a $number - come - $number - served basis at the tuen mun district office , $number floor , tuen mun government offices , $number tuen hi road , tuen mun .
enquiries can be made on telephone $number $number .
gradings of beach water quality announced the environmental protection department (epd) today ( friday ) released its latest beach water quality monitoring results to inform swimmers and the public about the water quality of the beaches in hong kong .
the beach grading results are announced weekly on every friday during the bathing season to coincide with the weekly frequency of beach monitoring by epd .
under epd 's monitoring system , beaches are classified into four grades according to the most recent trends in e. coli data collected .
among the $number beaches , four are found to be in " good " condition ( grade $number ) , $number " fair " ( grade $number ) , $number " poor " ( grade $number ) and five " very poor " ( grade $number ) .
in general , many beaches are likely to be more polluted than the grades suggested during and after periods of heavy rain .
hence , bathers should avoid swimming at beaches , particularly grade $number and $number beaches , for a few days after a storm or heavy rainfall .
the public are reminded that grade $number beaches are generally considered unsuitable for swimming at any time .
at present , five gazetted beaches , namely anglers ' , approach , ting kau , castle peak and rocky bay , are closed to swimmers based on the beach water quality monitoring data for $number .
clinic service on public holiday the department of health announced today ( friday ) that $number holiday clinics will be open from $number am to $number pm on monday ( $date ) , which is a public holiday .
they are violet peel health centre and shau kei wan jockey club clinic on hong kong island ; kwun tong jockey club health centre , robert black health centre , and yau ma tei jockey club clinic in kowloon ; lady trench polyclinic , shek wu hui jockey club clinic , yuen long jockey club health centre , lek yuen health centre and tuen mun clinic in the new territories .
over $ $number paid to traffic accident victims the social welfare department paid out more than $ $number from the traffic accident victims assistance (tava) fund in the $number financial year to help traffic accident victims or their dependents .
according to the $number tava fund annual report , a total of $number applications were received during the period , compared with $number in the previous year , representing an increase of $number per cent .
however , police figures showed that there was a decrease of $number per cent in the number of traffic casualties from $number $date / $number in the year reported .
" the increase in application rate indicates that more people are aware of their right to apply for assistance in the event of traffic accidents , " a department spokesman said today ( sunday ) .
the largest payment of the year amounting to $ $number was granted to the dependents of a man who was knocked down by a taxi in sha tin on $date and subsequently died three weeks later .
the department handled $number cases of serious traffic accidents involving heavy casualties during the period .
the accident resulting in the largest number of victims occurred on $date at tuen mun road when a coach collided with two lorries , in which $number people were injured .
the spokesman explained that the tava scheme was designed to provide speedy financial assistance to victims or their dependents . applications for assistance , either in person or by post , should be made within six months of the traffic accident which must have been reported to the police .
" in major traffic accidents , staff from the tava section would take the initiative to contact victims or their dependents immediately to help them apply at an early date , " the spokesman said .
application forms can be obtained from the accident investigation units of regional police headquarters , district offices of the home affairs department and swd 's tava section at room $number , wu chung house , $number queen 's road east , wan chai .
youngsters learn about hk 's medical heritage a tour organised by the home affairs department for some $number youngsters to the hong kong museum of medical sciences today ( sunday ) proved to be not only an educational but also a culturally enriching experience for them .
the visit was part of a series of heritage - related activities organised by the department in support of the current " heritage year " and the summer youth programme , according to the director of home affairs , mrs shelley lau .
" we hope that through such visits , our young people would get to know more about the medical history of hong kong , how our health services have improved over the years , and develop a greater interest in our heritage in the process , " mrs lau said .
the visitors also witnessed the presentation of cheque donations to the chairman of the museum , dr gerald choa , who said the museum was $number such facility dedicated to exploring the interface between traditional chinese and western medicine and committed to further research in this area .
donors include the lord wilson heritage trust , mr lo man - tuen , mrs julie siu , mr chow kwen - lim , mr chan tung and the hang seng bank .
expressing appreciation for the $ $number donated to the museum , dr choa said the historical edwardian - style building , formerly occupied by the old pathological institute in caine lane , served both as an educational venue and a secure location for the preservation of medical artifacts of historical value .
" the building now houses exhibition rooms , a lecture hall and special facilities for study and education to be used by the general public , school groups , researchers and overseas visitors .
" exhibits in the museum will aid members of the community to learn more about the science of health and disease , including past conquests , current developments and future challenges of special relevance to hong kong , " dr choa added .
deputy secretary for broadcasting , culture and sport , mrs jenny wallis , provisional legislative council member , dr leong che - hung , and dr lilian leong were among the guests .
work arrangement during rainstorms urged the labour department today ( sunday ) reminded employers and employees to reach an agreement on work arrangements during inclement weather without delay .
" employers are strongly advised to adopt a flexible approach in drawing up work arrangements during inclement weather . due consideration should be given to employees ' safety in workplace as well as their journey to and from work , " a spokesman for the department said .
an agreement on work arrangements should normally cover rules regarding report of duty , release from work , resumption of work and wages calculation .
" the agreement should state clearly the colour code of rainstorm under which employees are not required to work and the time of issue of such signals when they are not required to report for duty , " the spokesman said .
" it should also include instructions regarding the release of employees when the red or black rainstorm warning is in force during working hours .
" employers and employees should also make prior arrangements on conditions under which employees should return to work when rainstorm warnings are lowered during working hours . "
however , employers are urged to adopt a flexible approach towards resumption of duty as some employees may have difficulties in returning to work .
" as rainstorms are natural calamities , due consideration should also be given to employees who are absent from or late for work so that their earnings , including attendance bonus , are not adversely affected , " the spokesman added .
employers or employees who require assistance are welcome to approach the nearest labour relations service branch office .
water cut in southern district and sham shui po fresh and flushing water supply to all premises in chung hom kok and repulse bay will be suspended from $number pm on wednesday ( $date ) to $number am the following day for alteration work on watermains .
the suspension will affect all premises in chung hom kok road , cape drive , cape road , ching sau lane , horizon drive , $number south bay road , headland road , $number and $number and $number south bay close , $number and $number repulse bay road .
meanwhile , flushing water supply to some premises in sham shui po will be suspended during the same period of time .
the suspension will affect all premises in broadcast drive , beacon hill , chak on estate , city university of hong kong , a section of cornwall street between beacon hill road and nam cheong street , and a section of nam cheong street between cornwall street and pak wan street .
fresh water cut in sai kung fresh water supply to some premises in sai kung will be suspended from $number pm on wednesday ( $date ) to $number am the following day for waste detection work on watermains .
the suspension will affect all premises in the area bounded by man nin street , po tung road , yi chun street and sai kung hoi pong square .
anti - rabies inoculation drive in fishing ports the agriculture and fisheries department (afd) will launch a half - yearly dog inoculation drive in fishing ports this week so that fishermen can have their dogs immunised against rabies and implanted with microchips .
starting from friday ( $date ) , afd 's mobile dog inoculation teams will go to the territory 's fishing ports and make boat - to - boat visits between $number am and $number pm daily .
the inoculation schedule is as follows : port date aberdeen $date , $number sha tau kok $date , $number cheung chau $date , $number sai kung $date , $number sam mun chai $date castle peak bay $date , $number shau kei wan $date , $number the drive , a regular exercise $date , is intended to help fishermen who find little time to take their dogs to an inoculation centre or a government kennel for vaccination .
an afd acting senior veterinary officer , dr thomas sit said that the drive was part of the government 's continuing effort to prevent rabies in hong kong .
" hong kong has enjoyed rabies - free status since $date , a status we intend to protect , " said dr sit .
he stressed that rabies was a deadly disease transmissible from animals to human . dogs on fishing vessels are particularly vulnerable because of their possible contacts with other animals outside hong kong .
under the rabies ordinance , all dogs over five months old are required to be inoculated against rabies , microchipped and licensed . failure to do so will render the owner liable to a maximum fine of $ $number .
national day celebrations hong kong will , on $date ( wednesday ) , celebrate $number national day since it became a special administration region of the people 's republic of china .
the home affairs bureau has been tasked with co - ordinating a programme of celebration activities on that day .
at $number am , the national flag will be raised at a simple and solemn ceremony to be held at the seafront promenade of the hong kong convention and exhibition centre , near the statue of the gold bauhinia which was a gift from the central people 's government to mark hong kong 's reunification with china .
the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , will host a reception at the grand hall of the hong kong convention and exhibition centre extension in the late afternoon . it is expected that the reception will be attended by $number invited guests from all sectors of the community .
the two provisional municipal councils will organise recreation and sports activities in victoria park , sha tin and tsuen wan in the afternoon to celebrate the occasion .
meanwhile , a full programme of celebration activities will be sponsored by the $number provisional district boards at district level .
the home affairs department is applying for funds to enable provisional district boards to meet some of the costs of the district activities .
a cultural performance organised by the association of compatriots in hong kong for celebration of the national day of the people 's republic of china will take place at the hong kong coliseum from $number pm to $number pm .
to round off the evening , the association of hong kong guangdong community organisations for celebration of return of hong kong to china is planning to stage a $number - minute fireworks display at victoria harbour at around $number pm .
a spokesman for the home affairs bureau said that details of the official and unofficial events were still being worked out .
high apis for the new development areas the environmental protection department today ( tuesday ) recorded the " unhealthy " air pollution index (api) value of $number for the new development areas , including islands , southern , sai kung , tuen mun , yuen long , sha tin , tai po and north districts .
" when the index exceeds $number , air quality is generally unhealthy .
people suffering from asthma , lung or heart illnesses may be adversely affected , and are advised to minimise physical exercises , especially energetic or laborious outdoor activities , until the air quality situation improves , " acting assistant director of environmental protection ( air ) , mr arthur chu said .
he said : " the poor air quality we are now experiencing is due to ozone , which is not directly emitted from pollution sources , but formed by the reaction of air pollutants in the atmosphere when under sunlight .
" nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons , which are mostly emitted by motor vehicles , are the main pollutants involved in the formation of ozone .
the calm and sunny weather over the last few days has provided sufficient time and the necessary conditions for the polluting chemicals in the atmosphere to form ozone , " mr chu added .
the indices for urban areas ( including central / western , wan chai , eastern , kowloon city , sham shui po , wong tai sin and yau tsim mong districts ) , and industrial areas ( including kwun tong , kwai tsing and tsuen wan districts ) , have also reached $number and $number , respectively .
the api forecast for the territory tomorrow ( wednesday ) is $number for the urban area , $number for the industrial area and $number for the new development area .
members of the public can check the api readings on $number $number .
signing of tseung kwan o landfills restoration contract the environmental protection department ( epd ) today ( tuesday ) signed a contract to restore two old landfills in tseung kwan o covering a total area of $number hectares .
under the contract , the contractor is required to design , construct and manage the restoration facilities at the sites for up to $number years until the land has been de - contaminated and is ready for normal development .
the land can be put into temporary recreational uses such as for football field and golf driving range after restoration facilities are in place .
the contract is awarded to swire bfi waste services limited (sbfi) , which is a company jointly owned by swire pacific limited and browning - ferris industries , inc .
the capital cost is $ $number and an average of about $ $number will be paid to the contractor each year for operating and maintaining the restoration facilities .
under the landfill restoration programme , this is $number contract after the shuen wan and urban landfills .
tender for $number contract for old landfills in northwest new territories and gin drinker bay will also be called in the near future .
speaking after the contract signing ceremony , the assistant director of environmental protection ( waste facilities ) , mr benny wong said the tseung kwan o landfills needed to be cleaned up as soon as possible so that they would not cause any pollution problems to the existing and future industrial and residential development in the vicinity .
" the restoration works include the construction of impermeable capping , landfill gas extraction and flaring systems to burn off the extracted landfill gas at a high temperature , wastewater extraction and treatment system to treat the extracted wastewater to the required standard before discharging into public sewer . "
given the right conditions , he said , landfill gas might be utilized either in the form of an alternative fuel or energy for generating electricity .
" as a start , the restoration contractor is required to utilize the extracted landfill gas as a fuel to generate sufficient electricity to power the on - site facilities . "
mr wong pointed out that the old landfills had served hong kong over the past $number years , but all landfills , old and new ones alike , were finite resources and had to be conserved and used sensibly .
" at present , large quantities of waste are generated every day and disposed of at the three strategic landfills . if the quantities of waste are not reduced , all the landfills in hong kong will be filled up $date , " he said .
to address the problem of increasing waste generation , he said a draft waste reduction plan was formulated and had been issued for public consultation .
" we have already received a lot of valuable comments on the draft plan and hope to receive more in the remaining consultation period which will end on $date ( saturday ) , $number , " mr wong said .
comments should be sent to the planning , environment and lands bureau , $number floor , murray building , garden road , hong kong , or via the e - mail address : [ waste.reduction@pelb.wpelb.gov.hk ] .
transport secretary visits mtrc the secretary for transport , mr nicholas ng , this ( tuesday ) afternoon started his familiarisation visits to the territory 's major transport operators by calling at the mass transit railway corporation (mtrc) .
at the company 's kowloon bay headquarters , mr ng met the directors of various departments and was briefed on all aspects of its operation , including marketing , fare schemes , finance , airport railway and the new travel pass octopus to be launched next month .
mr ng also took the opportunity to see for himself the railway 's central control room and workshop area .
mr ng then proceeded to board a train for the central station , where he observed the traffic flow of an average of $number commuters during peak hours .
mr ng has earlier visited the transport department and highways department . he will next call at the kowloon canton railway corporation and other major transport operators .
airmail services to cambodia resumed the acting postmaster general , mr p c luk , announced today ( tuesday ) that all airmail services to cambodia , including speedpost , which have been suspended since $date , are now resumed .
fresh water cut in tsim sha tsui fresh water supply to some premises in tsim sha tsui will be suspended from $number pm on friday ( $date ) to $number am the following day for waste detection work on watermains .
the suspension will affect all premises along $number carnarvon road , new world centre , new world hotel and regent hotel , and those in the areas bounded by mody road , cornwall avenue and bristol avenue , as well as mody road , minden row , minden avenue and chatham road south .
hong kong court of final appeal rules following is the speech by the chief secretary for administration , mrs anson chan , in moving the motion on the hong kong court of final appeal rules in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : madam president , i move the motion as set out under my name in the agenda .
the hong kong court of final appeal rules committee made the hong kong court of final appeal rules ( the rules ) on $date .
the rules were gazetted on the same day and tabled at the council meeting on $date .
the aim of the rules is to provide for the procedures and practice for appeals to the court of final appeal .
i would like to thank the honourable ronald arculli and other members of the sub - committee for their careful scrutiny of the rules .
after consideration , the sub - committee supports the rules but has made a number of drafting suggestions for the rules committee 's consideration .
i understand that all other substantive queries on the rules have also been satisfactorily answered by the judiciary administrator . we agreed that four technical amendments should be made to the rules to make the provisions clearer .
community has great esteem for national anthem and flag following is a question by the hon chim pui - chung and a reply by the secretary for constitutional affairs , mr michael suen , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : since hong kong has become the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , will the government inform this council whether it has formulated any regulations stipulating that failing to stand up when the national anthem is played at public venues , or showing disrespect when the national flag is raised , is a criminal offence ; if not , whether consideration will be given to introducing legislation in this regard ?
reply : madam president , to uphold the dignity of the national anthem and the national flag , when the national anthem is played at public venues , all those present should stand up ; when the national flag is raised , those who are present should stand up and regard the national flag in solemn silence .
there is no existing legislation stipulating that failing to stand up when the national anthem is played , or showing disrespect when the national flag is raised , is an offence .
we strongly believe that the people of hong kong have great esteem for the national anthem and the national flag , and they fully understand that no disrespect should be shown when the national anthem is played and the national flag is raised .
we hope to further foster the nationals ' awareness in this respect through civil education and we would consider introducing legislation if necessary .
food business licence not necessary for police canteens following is a question by the hon selina chow and a reply by the secretary for security , mr peter lai , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : it is reported that the existing $number police canteens are operating without a licence and that they also serve people who do not work in police stations .
reply : madam president , (a) canteens ( other than a factory canteen ) set up in a work place for the exclusive use of the persons employed in the work place do not fall within the definition of " food business " in the food business ( urban council ) by - laws and food business ( regional council ) by - laws made under the public health and municipal services ordinance ( cap . $number ) and are not required to obtain a licence .
since police canteens are intended for the exclusive use by staff of the hong kong police force , they fall within this category and are therefore not required to obtain a licence .
however , health inspectors of the urban services department and the regional services department still inspect these canteens monthly to ensure that they comply with the food hygiene standards stipulated in cap . $number .
in addition , the police catering division conducts its own monthly check to ensure the hygiene standards of these canteens are satisfactory . (b) & (c) police canteens are intended for use by staff of the police force only .
some police canteen operators violate this requirement because they want to increase profit by serving more customers .
the police management will step up supervision of police canteens to prevent them from serving outsiders .
those found to permit unauthorised persons to dine in for $number time will be given verbal warning . on $number occasion , warning letters will be issued .
(d) contracts for running police canteens are granted by open tender .
to ensure that these contracts are granted in a fair and impartial manner , the police management have adopted the following procedures and criteria (i) inviting tenders from interested parties by placing notice on newspapers .
no change to visa - free access arrangement for bn ( o ) following is a question by dr the hon leong che - hung and a written reply by the secretary for security , mr peter lai , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : it is reported that some countries which previously offered visa - free entry to british national ( overseas ) (bno) passport holders have ceased to adopt such a practice after $date .
reply : madam president , (a) & (b) as far as we know , no country or territory has withdrawn visa - free access facility offered to bn ( o ) passport holders after $date .
in late $date , malaysia announced that hksar and bn ( o ) passport holders would need to have a visa to visit malaysia from $date and $date respectively .
we took immediate action to request the malaysian government to reconsider their decision .
we understand that the uk government also made a similar request to the malaysian government .
in early $date , we were informed by the malaysian government that they were reviewing our request and pending a final decision , hksar and bn ( o ) passport holders would not need to apply for a visa to visit malaysia .
a final decision is expected later in the year .
(c) only one visa abolition agreement , signed by the uk with argentina , applied specifically to bn ( o ) passport holders .
under the terms of this agreement , the uk government granted reciprocal visa - free access to argentinean nationals to hong kong .
we understand that there is no expressed provision for the termination of this agreement by a specific date , but because the uk government cannot continue to offer visa - free access to hong kong to argentinean nationals from $date , this agreement has in practice ceased to apply .
however , the argentinean government have expressed willingness to continue to grant visa - free access for bn ( o ) passport holders to argentina on an informal basis .
there are eight other visa abolition agreements between the uk government and other states all of which pre - dated the creation of the bn ( o ) status and do not refer specifically to bn ( o ) passport holders , although they cover them in practice .
these agreements accord mutual visa - free access to $number country and to uk ( but not to hong kong ) for british nationals and nationals of $number country respectively .
these agreements continue in force .
(d) the travel convenience of hong kong residents holding different forms of travel documents remains a priority concern of the hksar government .
through the british consulate general in hong kong , we have been maintaining a close liaison with the british government in respect of the travel convenience of bn ( o ) passport holders .
although no new certificate of identity is issued from $date , we have monitored the degree of travel convenience of certificate of identity holders closely and have taken prompt action whenever necessary .
when there were reports that certificate of identity holders were not accepted for visa applications to some european countries in $date , we took immediate action to clarify with the countries concerned .
we were assured that there had been no change to the treatment of certificate of identity holders .
we will continue to liaise with the uk government to preserve the visa - free access arrangements for bn ( o ) passport holders , and take appropriate actions to preserve and ( where possible ) enhance the travel convenience of certificate of identity holders .
reply : (a) the total number of applications processed by the aids trust fund is as follows : category of applications no of applications ( as at $date ) received approved rejected withdrawn ex - gratia payments $number $number $number medical and support services 29* $number $number $number publicity and public education $number $number $number $number total $number $number $number $number * one application is being processed .
(ii) medical and support services to be approved , the proposals contained in the applications must directly benefit the hiv - infected patients or their families and should not duplicate services normally provided by the hospital authority and department of health .
( iii ) publicity and public education to be approved , the proposed projects must contribute to the public understanding of aids , foster a sympathetic attitude toward those affected by this disease and help to instil a positive approach to the prevention of aids .
in examining the applications for funds for " medical and support services " and " publicity and public education " , the council also takes into account whether the proposals : - have a clearly defined scope and are self - contained ; - are accompanied by an impact analysis and implementation programme ; - have ready detailed planning and cost estimates ; - are to be implemented by persons or organisations which have a good track record of completing projects without unnecessary delay or cost overruns .
(d) there is no readily available information on the longest , shortest and average time taken in processing the applications received since the establishment of the fund .
in accordance with the present vetting procedures , the processing time ranges from a few weeks for urgent cases to six months in cases where additional information from the applicant is required .
the average processing time is about three months .
(e) following a review $date , the council has introduced improvement measures to streamline the procedures for processing applications .
the council has now set a fixed schedule for holding four rounds of sub - committee and council meetings a year .
the three categories of applications are $number examined by the respective sub - committees and then by the council for a final decision .
the application deadlines for each round of meeting and the application procedures are announced through the media .
a new application form has been introduced to facilitate the applicants in providing the necessary information .
applicants may also be invited to attend a meeting in person to present their applications and provide necessary clarifications .
(f) under the terms of the declaration of trust establishing the aids trust fund , only persons who are hong kong residents and who contracted hiv via transfusion of contaminated blood or blood products in hong kong before $date and their family members under conditions described in (c) are eligible for receiving the ex - gratia payments .
the terms of the trust do not permit amendment of these conditions .
(g) as described in (c) , the resident status of the person contracting hiv is a relevant factor in determining the eligibility for receiving ex - gratia payment .
the person must be a hong kong resident .
fire incidents on buses following is a question by the hon choy kan - pui and a written reply by the secretary for transport , mr nicholas ng , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : regarding the recent occurrence within one day of fire accidents on three public buses in motion which has aroused public concern over the safety of bus passengers , will the government inform this council of (a) the number of fire accidents which occurred on buses in each of the past three years , together with the causes of such accidents ; and (b) the measures to be taken by the authority concerned to prevent the recurrence of fire accidents on buses in motion , so as to ensure the safety of the passengers ?
reply : in each of the past three years , the number of fires which occurred on buses while in motion was $number , $number and $number ( $date ) respectively .
the main causes were fuel or oil leakage and electrical short circuit . details are shown in the annex .
the administration takes a serious view about the recent spate of fires on buses while in motion , even though no passengers were hurt .
transport department has worked with the franchised bus companies to investigate the cause of fire in each case .
more specifically , the following measures have been taken (a) a fleet check was ordered for all buses with the same type of component as the ones found to have failed and caused the fire .
(b) as seven cases of fire this year were due to deterioration of the oil or fuel hose resulting in leakage , all franchised bus companies were required to inspect similar hoses , and replace those which are defective , and those which are approaching the end of their economic life .
(c) transport department has instructed franchised bus operators to tighten up their monthly maintenance inspection of their fleet to provide an early warning on mechanical and electrical defects .
(d) to tackle the problem of poor workmanship which caused one of the incidents , franchised bus companies were required to review and improve inspection and quality control procedures .
internal disciplinary action was also taken against the staff concerned .
(e) franchised bus companies were also urged to step up enforcement of the no - smoking restrictions on buses to prevent recurrence of fire due to cigarette ends left behind by passengers , as in one recent case .
in addition , transport department has increased the daily surprise spot checks of in - service buses , from $number buses a day to $number buses a day .
where there are indications of improper maintenance , the bus companies will be required to rectify the situation , and prosecution may also be instituted .
all buses are inspected annually by transport department for roadworthiness before licences are renewed .
as an ongoing effort , franchised bus companies are urged to enhance the training of bus drivers in the handling of emergencies .
the safety of passengers is always the key consideration .
hoisting of national flag and regional flag following is a question by the hon lau wong fat and a reply by the secretary for constitutional affairs , mr michael suen , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : the national flag and national emblem ordinance and the regional flag and regional emblem ordinance , which strictly regulate the hoisting of the national flag and regional flag , have already come into operation .
reply : madam president , (a) under the stipulations for the display and use of the national flag and national emblem and the regional flag and regional emblem made by the chief executive under section $number ( $number ) of the national flag and national emblem ordinance and section $number ( $number ) of the regional flag and regional emblem ordinance , the director of administration is responsible for specifying which government offices and organisations as well as other organisations should display the national and regional flags on certain days .
the administration wing of the chief secretary for administration 's office is also responsible for advising these offices and organisations on the display of these flags . as regards whether private organisations comply with the stipulations for the display of the national and regional flags , the administration wing of the chief secretary for administration 's office will act on complaint when reports of non - compliance with the stipulations are received .
(b) both the national flag and national emblem ordinance and the regional flag and regional emblem ordinance have clear provisions on the hoisting of the national and regional flags in a proper manner .
on request or on complaint , the administration wing of the chief secretary for administration 's office and the protocol office will provide advice to private organisations in this regard .
(c) a number of enquiries concerning the display of the national flag and regional flags have been received . however , there have not been any complaints concerning the display of the national and regional flags in an improper manner .
(d) the administration wing of the chief secretary for administration 's office and the protocol office will continue to provide advice to private organisations .
any organisation which wishes to obtain such advice can write to the director of administration or the director of protocol .
feasibility study on ma on shan railway project following is a question by the hon mrs miriam lau and a written reply by the secretary for transport , mr nicholas ng , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : the government indicated in $date this year that the feasibility study of the ma on shan railway project ( the project ) had been completed .
in this connection , will the government inform this council : (a) of the findings of the above feasibility study as well as the proposals relating to route alignment ; (b) of the progress to date in examining the findings of the feasibility study ; (c) whether , apart from conducting a feasibility study , the government has drawn up any timetable for carrying out technical and financial studies concerning the implementation of the various proposals of the project ; if so , what the details are ; and (d) of the date when a decision on the project is expected to be made , and the date when the ma on shan railway is expected to be completed ?
reply : mr president , the ma on shan to tai wai rail link ( mos rail ) , together with the extension of the kowloon - canton railway from hung hom to tsim sha tsui , is one of the three high priority projects recommended under the $number railway development strategy (rds) .
the engineering feasibility study on the project has been completed and the main recommendations in respect of the mos rail are as follows : (a) there should be nine stations , namely tai wai , sha tin tau , sha kok street , city one , shek mun , chevalier garden , heng on , ma on shan and lee on and the depot should be at tai wai ; (b) it should be a reduced heavy rail system ( i.e. $number - car mtr - type trains ) .
such a system would allow trains to be lengthened if necessary to cater for the possible future extension of the mos rail into the urban area ; and (c) the civil works of the railway should be designed to cater for possible future extension of the railway .
the consultants have proposed the adoption of side platforms which can be lengthened in future to cater for longer trains .
the administration is considering the recommendations of the engineering feasibility study , and the appropriate financial and institutional arrangements for implementing the project .
the timing for the commencement and completion of the project will be clearer after we have completed such deliberations .
reply : madam president , (a) as hong kong residents are not required to inform the government of their marriages which take place outside hong kong and the birth of children to them outside hong kong , we do not have the number of spouses of and children born to hong kong residents in the mainland .
however , some indicative figures are as follows : (i) the number of one - way permit applications from spouses of hong kong residents stood at $number as at mid - $date ; (ii) the number of children born in the mainland before $date who will have the right of abode in hong kong under basic law article $number ( $number ) ( $number ) and who are below $number years of age ( hereafter referred to as eligible children ) is estimated to be $number .
(b) we do not have a breakdown by age of the $number $number eligible children who have applied for one - way permits .
based on the arrival pattern of immigrants aged $number and under who arrived $date , it is estimated that the percentage breakdown by age is as follows : age percentage $number $number $number $number $number $number (c) the comprehensive social security assistance (cssa) scheme aims to provide assistance to those financially vulnerable members of our community in meeting their basic needs regardless of their sex , age , family status or background .
any individual or family who is in need and who meets our eligibility criteria will be rendered assistance .
the social welfare department therefore does not maintain separate records on cssa recipients whose spouses are living in the mainland and who have to give up their jobs to look after their children in hong kong .
(d) following from (c) above , the swd does not have separate statistics on payments to the specified category of cssa recipients .
government committed to improving primary health care the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , assured the public today ( thursday ) that the government is committed to improving primary health care in order to promote the health of general public .
" in view of our ageing population , rising expectations of the people and advances in medicine , we have to make an effort to improve our general health care services .
" this should be our long - term goal and it will be a major challenge for us $date , " mr tung said while visiting the medical facilities and services at the department of health 's south kwai chung jockey club polyclinic and the hospital authority 's princess margaret hospital .
mr tung noted that the government was spending $ $number , representing $number per cent of the total budget , in the current financial year to provide medical care for the community .
" this is a huge expenditure which saw substantial increase over the years .
the government must therefore ensure its cost - effectiveness and strive for the continued improvement of its medical and health services .
" we are now reviewing medical financing to enhance cost - effectiveness .
" the government and the hospital authority have made substantial achievements in the promotion of medical care .
for instance , the average life expectancy is $number years for male and $number years for female , " mr tung added .
during the visit to the clinic , mr tung was briefed on the various measures introduced to improve out - patient services for the elderly , including giving the senior citizens priority in receiving medical services , a special appointment system for the chronically ill , a more vigorous health education programme and the issuing of clinical guidelines .
referring to the $number student health service centres catering for some $number students , mr tung said a survey has shown that $number per cent of the parents were satisfied with the service .
" the service allows for early detection of and prompt actions on a student 's health problems . it also improve his learning ability . both the parents and the students have also become more appreciative of the importance of maintaining a healthy lifestyle as well as psychological health , " he added .
on out - patient care , mr tung noted that the department of health would open five more clinics to cater for patients ' needs , particularly during weekends , public holidays and outside normal office hours .
while visiting the paediatric ward of princess margaret hospital , mr tung was fascinated by lively frescoes designed to alleviate the anxiety of hopitalised children . the ward also organised games for young patients and encouraged parents to accompany their children all day .
praising the hospital authority 's contributions in upgrading the overall medical health services in hong kong , mr tung said the authority will work for closer co - operation with other medical institutions in the territory to achieve a seemless health care system .
he was confident that the public 's expectations in this respect could be met . he also stopped by the geriatric day hospital at the princess margaret hospital , which looked after many elderly out - patients who did not require overnight stay .
before concluding the visit , mr tung met with the provisional district board members and community leaders of tsuen wan , kwai tsing and islands districts and listened to their views on community issues .
he was accompanied by the director of home affairs , mrs shelley lau ; director of health , dr margaret chan ; chairman of the hospital authority , mr peter k c woo and chief executive of the hospital authority , dr e k yeoh .
financial secretary to visit australia the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , will leave on saturday ( $date ) for a week - long visit to australia .
announcing this today ( thursday ) , a government spokesman said mr tsang would visit sydney , canberra and melbourne where he would call on political and business leaders .
this is his $number visit to australia since he became financial secretary $date .
" australia , being an apec member and our close trading partner , shares many common goals with hong kong in promoting free trade .
" the purpose of mr tsang 's visit is mainly two - fold .
$number is to offer $number - hand information to the australian community and investors about hong kong 's economic situation and prospects after the handover . $number is to strengthen ties with the australian business and government leaders with a view to enhancing hong kong / australian trade and economic relations , " the spokesman said .
in sydney , mr tsang will deliver a keynote speech at an international business luncheon hosted by the new south wales state chamber of commerce and will address the securities institute of australia .
he will also call on the premier of new south wales , the hon robert john carr ; the treasurer and minister for state and regional development , the hon michael egan ; and the governor of reserve bank , mr ian macfarlane .
during his brief stay in canberra , mr tsang will make a round of calls to the deputy prime minister and minister for trade , the hon tim fischer ; the minister for foreign affairs , the hon alexander downer ; the treasurer , the hon peter costello and the minister for finance , the hon john fahey .
on his last leg of visit in melbourne , mr tsang will give a keynote address at a dinner hosted by the committee for economic development of australia and will call on the governor of victoria , his excellency the hon sir james gobbo ; the premier of victoria , the hon jeff kennett ; the treasurer and minister for multimedia , the hon alan stockdale ; and the minister for industry , science and technology , the hon mark birrell .
while in melbourne , mr tsang will attend a reception with hong kong associations and business groups and a dinner hosted by the australasia centre of the asia society .
mr tsang will also take the opportunity of this visit to meet with the australian media .
mr tsang will return to hong kong on $date ( sunday ) .
hkma in support of bis bridging facility the bank for international settlements (bis) has agreed to provide a short - term bridging facility to the bank of thailand in support of thailand 's economic adjustments pending the drawdown of part of the international monetary fund facility now being arranged .
as a member of the bis , the hong kong monetary authority (hkma) has agreed to join the central banks / monetary authorities of the g-10 countries and other asian and european economies in guaranteeing the bridging facility by the bis .
the guarantee is $number utilization of the us $ $number facility to the bank of thailand previously approved by the financial secretary , mr donald tsang .
the short - term bis bridging facility is a demonstration of the support from the international central bank community for the bank of thailand .
the participation of hong kong , which is a leading financial centre in the region and full member of the bis , is a reflection of hong kong 's commitment to financial stability in asia .
inter - district bus - only lanes put on trial the transport department will try out an inter - district bus - only lanes ( bols ) scheme from saturday ( $date ) with an aim to enhance the reliability of bus services and shorten bus journey time .
the scheme includes designation of a number of bols between aberdeen and wan chai together with the implementation of complementary traffic management measures .
a spokesman for the department said : " the scheme , to be implemented in two stages , is based on the proposals by a consultancy commissioned by the department last $date to carry out feasibility study on inter - district bols in the territory .
" the study was prompted by the report of the working group on measures to address traffic congestion $date . " analysis of the responses to the report reveals strong public support for greater priority to be given to buses in using road space , " he said .
stage i of the scheme covers wong chuk hang road and morrison hill road while stage ii covering hennessy road will be implemented in mid $number .
the designated bols will operate daily except sundays and public holidays .
the wan chai bound lanes will operate from $number am to $number am whereas the aberdeen bound lanes will operate from $number pm to $number pm .
on complementary traffic management measures , the spokesman said , central bound citybus routes no . 3 7 a , $number , $number , 9 0 a and $number from the southern district would be re - routed via morrison hill road , tin lok lane and hennessy road in lieu of morrison hill road , wan chai road , fleming road and hennessy road to help alleviate traffic congestion at fleming road .
furthermore , bus stops along morrison hill road , wan chai road and hennessy road westbound will be rearranged to improve bus operations .
a new taxi stand will also be erected at sung tak street to facilitate loading and unloading of taxi passengers .
the spokesman noted that the effectiveness of the inter - district bols scheme and the diversion of bus routes would be assessed and surveys would be conducted shortly after their implementation when traffic pattern became stable .
" analysing the collected survey data would reveal traffic situations 'before ' and 'after ' bols implementation .
the same assessment will be carried out after stage ii of the scheme in mid $number .
" the results of both assessments will be used as design reference for other inter - district bols under consideration in the consultancy study , " the spokesman added .
working group on training and retraining for construction industry set up the government has set up a working group to identify how best to expand and improve the training and retraining programmes for the local construction industry to meet the anticipated growth in demand for construction workers in the next decade .
the working group on training and retraining for construction industry , chaired by the deputy secretary for education and manpower , mr matthew cheung kin - chung , comprises representatives from the relevant training bodies , trade associations , trade unions as well as government bureaus and departments .
the working group met for $number time this ( thursday ) morning and took stock of the existing training and retraining programmes for the construction industry .
members pledged their full support and co - operation in fulfilling the objectives of the working group , which are as follows : - to identify how best to expand the current training capacity and improve training and retraining programmes to meet the needs of hong kong 's construction industry in the next decade ; _ to facilitate the successful placement of trained and retrained workers in the construction industry ; - to suggest the government , the trades and the training bodies to take appropriate measures to ensure an adequate supply of manpower resources to cope with the need of the construction industry ; and - to monitor the adequacy of the labour supply for the construction industry .
a spokesman for the education and manpower bureau said today that following the chief executive 's pledge to provide $number housing units a year over the next decade , there had been concern in various quarters over whether there would be sufficient supply of construction workers , at different levels of skills , to meet expected demand in the foreseeable future .
" as a $number step , the education and manpower bureau has already formed an inter - departmental working group to study and assess the demand for construction workers , by number and by trade types , in the next five years in meeting the building programme for both public and private housing and other major infrastructural projects .
" although the manpower assessment will only be completed by the end of this year , it is apparent that a key measure to meet the anticipated demand for construction workers is to boost our training and retraining capacity , " the spokesman said .
" the working group on training and retraining for construction industry is expected to play a useful role in the overall government effort in meeting the housing construction programme and ensuring the creation of employment opportunities in the construction industry for local workers in the coming years , " he added .
the non - government members on the working group comprise professor lee ngok , executive director of the vocational training council ; mr albert tong yat - chu , executive director of the construction industry training authority ; mr chow tung - shan , executive director of the employees retaining board ; mr jimmy tse lai - leung , president of the hong kong construction association ; mr patrick chan wing - tung , secretary general of the hong kong construction association ; mr james chiu , president of the hong kong electrical and mechanical contractors ' association ; mr wai siu - yu , general secretary of the real estate developers association of hong kong ; mr poon tao - chuen , chairman of the hong kong construction industry employees general union and mr wan koon - sun , vice chairman of the hong kong and kowloon electrical engineering and appliances trade workers union .
the government members include mr tang kwong - yiu , government economist ; mrs jennie chor , assistant commissioner for labour ; mr helius ng kai - ming , chief assistant secretary of works bureau and secretary of the construction advisory board ; mr chan chun - wai , acting chief assistant secretary for housing ( project management ) of the housing bureau as well as mr tony reynalds and miss esther leung yuet - yin , both principal assistant secretary for education and manpower ; mr y h lee , acting senior statistician , ms christine tang and miss elsa sit ting - fong , both assistant secretary for education and manpower .
additional safety standards for children 's products notice to adopt additional safety standards for certain children 's products will be gazetted tomorrow ( friday ) .
a government spokesman said today ( thursday ) that the toys and children 's products safety ordinance ( amendment of schedule ) notice $number will be tabled at the provisional legislative council meeting on $date .
the existing ordinance stipulates that children 's products supplied in hong kong have to conform to prescribed safety standards set by british standards institution (bsi) .
the notice accepts the use of safety standards from the us , australia , new zealand , europe and the international organisation for standardisation for seven children 's products .
the spokesman said : " we believe allowing traders to bring in children 's products that conform to safety standards other than bsi safety standards will offer consumers more choices . "
he added : " in examining which safety standards to adopt , we make sure that the alternative specifications are equivalent in their safety requirements to the existing bsi specifications so that consumer safety is not compromised . "
the additional non - bsi safety standards will be effective from $date .
the notice also adopts three updated bsi standards which were amended by the institution last year .
to allow traders more time to adjust their products , the bsi amendments will come into force on $date .
value of manufacturers ' orders - on - hand in $date the value of manufacturers ' orders - on - hand for local production in $date decreased by $number over a year earlier , according to the provisional results of a monthly survey released today ( thursday ) by the census and statistics department .
comparing $date with $date , decreases of various magnitudes in the value of orders were recorded in the plastic products industry ( $number ) , the wearing apparel industry ( $number ) , the electrical products industry ( $number ) , the fabricated metal products industry ( $number ) , the textiles industry ( $number ) and the electronic products industry ( $number ) .
on the other hand , the value of orders in the printing and publishing industry increased further by $number .
a government secretariat spokesman noted that the decline in orders - on - hand narrowed substantially in $date .
this was particularly notable in the electronic products , electrical products , fabricated metal products and textiles industries .
meanwhile , the strong upturn in orders - on - hand in the printing and publishing industry was sustained .
compared with $date , and bearing in mind that this comparison may be affected by seasonal factors , the value of manufacturers ' orders - on - hand in $date increased by $number .
the monthly survey of orders - on - hand covers a sample of some $number manufacturing firms engaging $number or more workers . manufacturers ' orders - on - hand refer to orders and parts of orders received earlier by manufacturers for local production which remain unfilled as at the end of the reference month .
orders received by traders not engaged in production are included if such orders are further placed to manufacturers for production locally . however , orders placed to manufacturing firms for production in the mainland of china and other places outside hong kong are not included in this series of orders - on - hand statistics .
a spokesman of the department pointed out that caution should be exercised in interpreting the manufacturers ' orders - on - hand figures in a single month . instead , the trend movement of the series as displayed over a wider span of time points should be looked at .
the survey report for $date , at $ $number a copy , is now available for sale at the government publications centre , queensway government offices , low block , ground floor , queensway , and at the census and statistics department publications unit , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries about the survey results may be made to the industrial production statistics section of the census and statistics department at $number $number .
the following table shows the year - on - year percentage changes in the value of orders - on - hand in different manufacturing industries .
percentage changes in the value of orders - on - hand in $date $date over $date over $date - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ( revised ) ( provisional ) all industries covered - $number in the survey .
electrical products - $number . fabricated metal products - $number . plastic products - $number . printing and publishing $number $number end
hk re - export trade statistics in $number half of $number according to the statistics released by the census and statistics department today ( thursday ) , re - exports accounted for $number of the value of total exports and $number of the total value of external trade of hong kong in $number half of $number , affirming the importance of re - export trade in the territory .
in the same period of $number , the corresponding shares were $number and $number respectively .
the mainland of china ( the mainland ) remained the largest partner for hong kong 's re - export trade .
as a source , re - exports originating in the mainland accounted for $number of hong kong 's re - export value in $number half of $number .
as a destination , the mainland 's share was $number .
taking the two directions of trade flow as a whole but counting only once the value of merchandises originating in and re - exported back to the mainland , the mainland accounted for $number or $ $number of the total $ $number of re - exports going through hong kong in $number half of $number .
it is noted that much of the re - export trade involving the mainland is related to outward processing , as raw materials and semi - manufactured goods are exported to the mainland for processing while the final products are subsequently returned to hong kong and re - exported to overseas markets .
other main origins of hong kong 's re - exports in $number half of $number included japan ( accounting for $number ) , taiwan ( $number ) , the united states ( $number ) and south korea ( $number ) .
the other main destinations included the united states ( accounting for $number ) , japan ( $number ) , germany ( $number ) and the united kingdom ( $number ) .
comparing $number half of $number with the same period $date , increases of various magnitudes were recorded in the value of re - exports originating in malaysia ( $number ) , singapore ( $number ) , italy ( $number ) , south korea ( $number ) , the mainland ( $number ) and the united states ( $number ) , while decreases of $number , $number and $number were recorded in the value of re - exports originating in germany , the united kingdom and taiwan respectively .
there was virtually no change in the value of re - exports originating in japan .
of the value of re - exports originating in the mainland in $number half of $number , $number went to the united states , $number to japan and $number to germany .
for goods of japanese origin , $number of the value of re - exports through hong kong in $number half of $number went to the mainland , $number to the united states and $number to south korea .
for re - exports originating in taiwan , an overwhelming proportion ( $number ) of the value in $number half of $number went to the mainland .
as regards re - exports originating in the united states , $number of the value in $number half of $number were shipped to the mainland , $number to taiwan and $number to south korea .
table $number shows the value of re - exports to the $number main destinations in $number half of $number and their changes compared with the same period $date . comparing $number half of $number with the same period $date , increases of various magnitudes were recorded in the value of re - exports to taiwan ( $number ) , the united states ( $number ) , the netherlands ( $number ) , the united kingdom ( $number ) , the mainland ( $number ) , singapore ( $number ) and france ( $number ) .
however , decreases of $number , $number and $number were recorded in the value of re - exports to germany , south korea and japan respectively .
analysed by commodity , increases in the value of re - exports to the mainland were recorded for electrical machinery , apparatus and appliances , and electrical parts thereof ( by $ $number or $number ) ; office machines and automatic data processing machines ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and textiles ( by $ $number or $number ) .
however , decreases in the value of re - exports to the mainland were recorded for general industrial machinery and equipment and machine parts ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and tobacco and tobacco manufactures ( by $ $number or $number ) .
as regards re - exports to the united states , increases in value were recorded for clothing ( by $ $number or $number ) ; office machines and automatic data processing machines ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and miscellaneous manufactured articles consisting mainly of baby carriages , toys , games and sporting goods ( by $ $number or $number ) .
however , decreases in the value of re - exports to the united states were recorded for prefabricated buildings , sanitary , plumbing , heating and lighting fixtures and fittings ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and vegetables and fruit ( by $ $number or $number ) .
detailed statistics of hong kong 's re - export trade in $number half of $number are published in the $date issue of the " hong kong external trade " report which will be available for sale at $ $number per copy around saturday ( $date ) . the report can be purchased at either (i) the government publications sales centre on the ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong ; or (ii) the publications unit of the census and statistics department on the $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries regarding subscription to this report may be directed to the publications ( sales ) office of the information services department at $number floor , siu on centre , $number lockhart road , wanchai , hong kong ( tel no. $number $number ) and enquiries on trade statistics to the census and statistics department ( tel no. $number $number ) .
$number building plans approved in $date the buildings department approved a total of $number building plans in $date $number on hong kong island , $number in kowloon and $number in the new territories .
this compared with $number building plans approved in may and $number in $date .
the approved plans covered $number for apartment and apartment / commercial developments , $number for commercial developments , six for factory and industrial developments , and $number for community services developments .
consent was given in the month for works to start on $number building projects , which will provide $number square metres of usable domestic floor area and $number square metres of usable non - domestic floor area on completion .
the department also issued $number occupation permits : $number on hong kong island , $number in kowloon and eight in the new territories .
of the buildings certified for occupation in $date , the usable floor area for domestic and non - domestic uses were $number square metres and $number square metres respectively .
the declared cost of new buildings completed in the month totalled about $ $number .
in addition , $number demolition consents involving $number buildings and structures were issued .
the department 's control and enforcement division received $number complaints against unauthorised building works in $date , and issued $number removal orders on unauthorised works .
revised fee for government rent account enquiry the director of accounting services , mr brian dagnall , today ( thursday ) announced that with effect from $date ( monday ) , the fee for enquiry of a government rent account maintained by the treasury would be revised from $ $number to $ $number .
the fee revision is to recover the costs incurred in providing such services .
philatelic products celebrating the year of the ox for sale the acting postmaster general , mr p c luk announced today ( thursday ) that philatelic products issued by the australia , canada , macau , singapore and united states postal services for celebrating the year of the ox would be available for sale at $number philatelic offices starting from sunday ( $date ) .
the products include the year of the ox miniature sheet and serviced $number day cover issued by the australia post for christmas island ; the year of the ox miniature sheet and serviced $number day cover as well as the $number year book issued by the canada post ; the year of the ox miniature sheet issued by the macau post ; the year of the ox stamps and presentation pack issued by the singapore post and the year of the ox stamp issued by the united states postal service .
a ' year of the ox souvenir pack ' containing an exclusive stamp collection for the year of the ox will also be available for sale from the same day .
the souvenir pack includes stamps from australia , canada , china , hong kong , macau , singapore and the united states .
" we are selling the philatelic products on a sunday in order to minimise the disruption to normal services .
the $number philatelic offices ' opening hours are from $number am to $number pm . normal counter services will not be rendered on that day , " mr luk said .
" to ensure everybody will have a fair chance to buy the philatelic products , a quota system governing the maximum quantity that each queuing customer can buy will be applied for $number day and following days while stock lasts . "
details of the philatelic products , their selling prices and quota are listed below : overseas postal philatelic products price quota services - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - christmas miniature sheet hk $ $number $number sheets island serviced $number hk $ $number $number covers day cover canada miniature sheet hk $ $number $number sheets serviced $number hk $ $number $number covers day cover $number year book hk $ $number $number book macau miniature sheet hk $ $number $number sheets singapore mint stamps ( set ) hk $ $number $number sets presentation pack hk $ $number $number pack others at face no maximum value limit united states sheet of $number stamps hk $ $number $number sheets panel hk $ $number $number sheets $number stamps from year of the ox hk $ $number $number packs seven countries souvenir pack sale of the international collection of philatelic products for the year of the ox is designed to meet the demands of collectors .
however , the public is reminded that the year of the ox stamps issued by the hongkong post are not valid for the pre - payment of postage .
fs 's speech *** following is a speech by the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , at the opening ceremony of $number asia pacific life insurance congress today ( friday ) : mr mak , mr ho , distinguished guests , ladies and gentlemen , let me start by thanking the asia pacific life insurance council for inviting me to open your $number congress .
on behalf of the hong kong special administrative region government , i welcome you all to hong kong at this significant juncture of hong kong 's history - just eight weeks after the historic return of hong kong to the people 's republic of china .
it is indeed hong kong 's great honour to play host to this prestigious international event .
the fact that you have chosen to hold your congress here is i believe a vote of confidence in hong kong as an international business centre .
the holding of your congress here has provided an excellent opportunity for you to see for yourselves that it is business as usual in hong kong wherever you go .
hong kong remains as safe a city to visit , as open a society , and as vibrant an economy as before .
the 'one country , two systems ' concept works , right in front of your eyes .
and i have every confidence that hong kong will grow from strength to strength as it plays an even more important role as china 's window on the world and the world 's window on china .
insurance is gaining importance in all the economies in the pacific rim .
in hong kong , the contribution of the insurance industry to economic growth is becoming increasingly significant .
it has recorded double - digit growth for nearly a decade .
at present , the industry accounts for $number of our gross domestic product . the industry provides employment for nearly $number people .
however , the density and penetration of insurance in hong kong , especially life insurance , are still relatively low as compared with japan , north america and western europe .
the growth potential of the hong kong insurance market is great .
the imminent introduction of the mandatory provident fund schemes , of which we expect the life insurance companies to be major providers , will further strengthen the development of the insurance industry in hong kong .
insurance practitioners play a significant role in the development of the market .
as the people of hong kong become more affluent , they are more interested in life insurance policies with special features such as those with elements of saving or investment .
in order to meet the rising expectations of both existing and potential policyholders , insurance practitioners have to be professionally competent and trustworthy . they have to constantly update themselves on the latest market trends , consumer preferences and product innovations .
through a series of well organized speeches by prominent professionals and discussion sessions , i am sure that this congress will provide you with an excellent opportunity to share ideas and experience with your successful colleagues .
with regard to the prudential regulation of the insurance industry in hong kong , i can summarise our guiding principle in four words , that is , " minimum intervention , maximum support " . we subscribe to the philosophy of free markets .
we believe that market competition is the best guarantee for economic efficiency and consumer welfare .
commercial decisions in matters such as determination of premium rates , commissions , policy terms and business conduct should best be left to market forces and self - regulation of the industry .
we will continue to do what is necessary to promote the stability and financial soundness of the insurance industry , and to facilitate the further development of the insurance market in hong kong .
our latest initiatives in regard to the latter objective include the promotion of the reinsurance sector and the introduction of captive insurance in hong kong .
we aim to make hong kong a regional insurance centre that meets the insurance needs of the modern world of tomorrow .
before closing my speech , i would like to welcome you once again to hong kong and wish you a stimulating and successful congress .
thank you .
hk aims to become a regional insurance centre : fs the financial secretary , mr donald tsang today ( friday ) said the government would continue to do everything necessary to promote the stability and financial soundness of the insurance industry , and to facilitate the further development of the insurance market in hong kong .
speaking at the opening ceremony of $number asia pacific life insurance congress at the hong kong coliseum , mr tsang said : " our latest initiatives include the promotion of reinsurance sector and the introduction of captive insurance in hong kong .
" we aim to make hong kong a regional insurance centre that meets the insurance needs of the modern world of tomorrow . "
mr tsang noted that insurance was gaining importance in all the economies in the pacific rim .
" in hong kong , the contribution of the insurance industry to economic growth is becoming increasingly significant . it has recorded double - digit growth for nearly a decade , " he said .
" at present , the industry accounts for $number of our gross domestic product .
the industry provides employment for nearly $number people . "
however , he said , the density and penetration of insurance , especially life insurance are still relatively low as compared with japan , north america and western europe .
" the growth potential of the hong kong insurance market is great .
the imminent introduction of the mandatory provident fund schemes , of which we expect the life insurance companies to be major providers , will further strengthen the development of the insurance industry in hong kong , " mr tsang said .
turning to the prudent regulation of the industry , mr tsang said the guiding principle could be summarised in four words which were " minimum intervention , maximum support . "
" we subscribe to the philosophy of free markets . we believe that market competition is the best guarantee for economic efficiency and consumer welfare , " he said .
" commercial decisions in matters such as determination of premium rates , commissions , policy terms and business conduct should best be left to market forces and self regulation of the industry . "
on life insurance business , mr tsang said it was a people - oriented business and insurance practitioners played a significant role in the development of the life insurance market .
" as the people of hong kong become more affluent , they are more interested in life insurance policies with special features such as those with elements of saving or investment , " he said .
mr tsang said insurance practitioners had to be professionally competent and trustworthy in order to meet the rising expectations of both existing and potential policyholders .
" they have to constantly update themselves on the latest market trends , consumer preferences and product innovations .
" i am sure that this congress will provide you with an excellent opportunity to share ideas and experience with your successful colleagues . it will help you establish professional links and friendship among yourselves , " he concluded .
trade director - general to attend apec meetings in canada the director - general of trade , mr alan lai , will depart for st john 's , newfoundland , canada , on sunday ( $date ) to attend this year 's $number senior officials meeting (som) of the asia - pacific economic cooperation (apec) to be held from $date to $number .
it is $number som attended by the government of the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) after the handover .
as provided for under the basic law and agreed with apec , the hksar participates in apec as a separate and independent member economy , using the name " hong kong , china " .
the hong kong , china delegation , led by mr lai , comprises officials from the trade and industry bureau , the financial services bureau , the immigration department , the industry department , the hong kong economic and trade office in toronto , and the trade department .
major issues to be discussed by senior officials include identification of sectors for early voluntary liberalization , implementation of and improvement to member economies ' individual action plans ( iaps ) for trade and investment liberalization and facilitation ; strengthening management of economic and technical cooperation ; programmes in apec initiatives on infrastructure ; and implementation of the recommendations of the apec business advisory council (abac) .
the som will be preceded by a series of meetings of committee , sub - committee and experts group including the committee on trade and investment , the economic committee , the sub - committee on standards and conformance , the government procurement experts group , and the investment experts group .
before the som , mr lai will hold a number of bilateral meetings with other member economies to exchange views on major issues .
he will also chair a collective review session on the iap of hong kong , china to enable other apec economies to have a better understanding of and put forth constructive comments on the iap of hong kong , china .
this is $number som under the canadian apec chairmanship .
senior officials will meet again in $date before reporting this year 's work to ministers and leaders .
the apec ministerial and economic leaders ' meetings will be held in vancouver , canada in $date .
member economies of apec are australia ; brunei darussalam ; canada ; chile ; the people 's republic of china ; hong kong , china ; indonesia ; japan ; the republic of korea ; malaysia ; mexico ; new zealand ; papua new guinea ; the philippines ; singapore ; chinese taipei ; thailand and the united states .
gazettal of un sanctions regulations the government today ( friday ) gazetted six regulations which seek to give effect to the directives given by the central people 's government to the chief executive for implementing united nations (un) sanctions .
the six regulations are : the un sanctions ( iraq ) ( control of gold , securities , payments and credits ) regulation , the un sanctions ( iraq ) regulation , the un sanctions ( libya ) regulation , the un sanctions ( libya ) ( prohibition of flights ) regulation , the un sanctions ( arms embargoes ) regulation , and the un sanctions ( angola ) regulation .
of the six regulations , two are on iraq relating to restrictions on imports from and exports to iraq of certain goods and related financial procedures .
two other regulations , on libya , are on restrictions on import from and export to libya of certain goods as well as on aviation links and related activities .
the remaining two regulations impose arms embargoes against somalia , liberia , and certain parties in rwanda and angola .
the secretary for trade and industry , miss denise yue , explained that the regulations were made under the enabling provisions of the united nations sanctions ordinance enacted last month ( $date ) .
miss yue said : " the implementation of un sanctions is necessary in order to enable the central people 's government to meet its international obligations . "
" it is also necessary to safeguard hong kong 's reputation as a responsible trading and financial centre and to prevent hong kong from becoming a conduit for those seeking to supply goods , services and finance to prohibited destinations and persons connected with them , identified in un security council decisions , " she added .
traders and interested parties who have queries on the regulations may contact miss peggy law , assistant secretary for trade and industry , at tel : $number $number ( fax : $number $number ) .
new phase for measles vaccination next month the $number special measles vaccination campaign conducted by the department of health (dh) will enter a new phase and target at young children aged one to $number starting from next month ( $date ) .
a spokesman for the department of health said children aged one to five would be given vaccination at the department 's general out - patient clinics and maternal and child health centres between $date ( monday ) and $date ( saturday ) .
appointment discs for this group will be available for collection from the clinics and health centres from next monday ( $date ) .
the spokesman appealed to anyone within this age group who had never received measles vaccine before or who had only received one dose of measles vaccine to come forward for vaccination during this period .
for children aged six to $number or those studying in primary schools , they would be given the vaccination at their schools by inoculation teams from dh between $date and $date .
the spokesman said : " the objective of the campaign is to prevent a predicted measles outbreak in hong kong .
" although most children have already received one dose of the vaccine at around one year old , a $number dose will enhance their immunity . "
he said that measles was an acute communicable disease that could lead to complications such as chest infection , middle ear infection , infection of the brain , or even death .
in the last major outbreak in hong kong $date , there were $number reported cases and eight deaths .
he added that although the campaign was targeted at measles , mmr ( measles , mumps and rubella ) vaccine would be given free to vaccinees during the campaign .
" this will provide additional protection for those who have not been immunised against mumps and rubella .
" alternatively , members of the public may also obtain vaccination from their private medical practitioners at their own expense . "
a special hotline on measles at $number $number is now in operation to provide the public with information on measles and arrangements for the special measles vaccination campaign .
leaflets on the campaign together with consent forms and information on addresses of inoculation centres are now available for collection at various district offices .
to facilitate efficient service , vaccinees are asked to bring along their immunisation record cards and consent forms when obtaining vaccinations .
need for school registration explained in response to media enquiries , a spokesman for the education department today ( friday ) explained that the requirement for schools , including tutorial schools , to register is to ensure safety and the interest of students .
the spokesman said : " the requirement for registration is to ensure that schools are fit for conducting classes and that the safety of students is ensured .
" applicants must comply with safety requirements of the building authority and the fire services department . when they produce documentary evidence of such compliance , education department will process their application for registration .
" processing is normally completed within $number working days . "
registration will also facilitate supervision by the government .
" we will continue to take rigorous action against illegal operations in the interest of students , " the spokesman said .
the education department has recently streamlined procedures for handling complaints against unregistered schools and responds more effectively .
broadcasting authority chairman appointed the chief executive has appointed mr norman leung nai - pang as the chairman of the broadcasting authority (ba) with effect from $date to succeed sir roger lobo .
mr benedict lee shui - sing is also appointed as a member of the ba with effect from the same date .
a spokesman for the broadcasting , culture and sport bureau said today ( friday ) : " mr leung is a serving member of the ba and chairs the ba complaints committee .
his knowledge and experience should help to enhance the work of the ba . "
in expressing her gratitude to the retiring chairman , the acting secretary for broadcasting , culture and sport , mrs rita lau , said that sir roger lobo had rendered an invaluable service to the people of hong kong .
" the government has been most fortunate to have available his advice during a period of rapid change in the broadcasting industry , " she added .
the above appointments were published in the gazette today .
work arrangement during rainstorms urged the labour department today ( friday ) reminded employers and employees to reach an agreement on work arrangements during inclement weather without delay .
" employers are strongly advised to adopt a flexible approach in drawing up work arrangements during inclement weather . due consideration should be given to employees ' safety in workplace as well as their journey to and from work , " a spokesman for the department said .
an agreement on work arrangements should normally cover rules regarding report of duty , release from work , resumption of work and wages calculation .
" the agreement should state clearly the colour code of rainstorm under which employees are not required to work and the time of issue of such signals when they are not required to report for duty , " the spokesman said .
" it should also include instructions regarding the release of employees when the red or black rainstorm warning is in force during working hours .
" employers and employees should also make prior arrangements on conditions under which employees should return to work when rainstorm warnings are lowered during working hours . "
however , employers are urged to adopt a flexible approach towards resumption of duty as some employees may have difficulties in returning to work .
" as rainstorms are natural calamities , due consideration should also be given to employees who are absent from or late for work so that their earnings , including attendance bonus , are not adversely affected , " the spokesman added .
employers or employees who require assistance are welcome to approach the nearest labour relations service branch office .
consultancy studies on housing development sites the civil engineering department has commissioned consultancy studies on two housing development sites at anderson road , kwun tong and near choi wan road , jordan valley .
the studies aim to establish the feasibility of implementing housing development on the sites , formulate a preferred land - use plan , conduct various impact assessments and ascertain the feasibility of the engineering works .
they will also provide the necessary information to help the government decide how and when to implement the works in an expeditious manner .
the two studies cost $ $number and will begin later this month for completion in a year .
agreements on the two studies were signed today ( friday ) between the acting government civil engineer , mr shiu wing - yu , and representatives from the two consultancy firms - - maunsell consultants asia ltd and scott wilson ( hong kong ) ltd .
works to boost tseung kwan o development the territory development department will launch two construction projects to facilitate development in tseung kwan o. in tseung kwan o town centre central , periphery roads will be constructed around areas $number , $number , $number , $number , $number and $number , where private and public housing will be built .
there will also be footpaths , cycle tracks , and landscaping , drainage and slope works .
in addition , three footbridges and four subways will be constructed at major road junctions to provide an integrated system for safe pedestrian traffic .
meanwhile , noise barriers ranging from six metres to $number metres in height and $number metres to $number metres in length will be built along the roads to reduce noise nuisance to nearby residents .
in $number project , wan po road will be widened and improved to cope with the increasing traffic volume brought about by various developments on the reclamation areas in the new town .
the road will become a two - way dual carriageway while a $number carriageway of $number kilometres long will be built . in addition , there will be a flyover , footpaths , cycle tracks , and landscaping and slope works .
noise barriers of four metres high and $number metres long will be built along a section of wan po road .
on completion of this project , traffic between tseung kwan o industrial estate and tseung kwan o south will be greatly improved .
both projects will start in $date next year for completion in $date .
road improvement works in tai po the territory development department will carry out works to upgrade ting kok road as part of a continuing programme for the development of the tai po new town .
about $number kilometres of road , cycle tracks and footpaths between tai po east fire station and wong yue tan will be widened and realigned .
the project will also include associated drainage works , slope treatment works and the construction of retaining walls and noise barriers .
on completion , the project will reduce the traffic risk in ting kok road significantly and help meet the traffic needs of a projected population of $number $number .
works will start next year and will be completed $date .
school works in tsuen wan the architectural services department will begin works in $date to build a standard primary school in area $number , tsuen wan .
upon completion in $date , the school will provide $number places to alleviate the demand for primary education in the district .
the school will comprise a main teaching block with $number classrooms , three remedial teaching rooms , a library , a student activity centre , three staff rooms , a general office and ancillary facilities .
there will also be a block of special rooms , including a general purpose room , a staff common room , a music room , an art and craft room , and covered play area .
furthermore , an assembly hall , basketball court , car park and planting area will also be built .
update on landslip incidents the geotechnical engineering office 's (geo) emergency control centre of the civil engineering department has received $number reports of landslips since the landslip warning was issued at $number pm today ( friday ) .
of these , five occurred on hong kong island , one each in tai po and kowloon , and three near tsuen wan .
as a result of landslip , one lane of route twisk near kong pan tin tsuen and both lanes of repulse bay road near no. $number were temporarily closed .
a family was evacuated from village terrace in happy valley .
more than $number millimetres of rainfall were recorded in kowloon and hong kong island between noon and $number pm today .
" members of the public should be on the alert for landslip danger and should report any sign of danger to the police immediately , " said mr david howells , head of geo .
" they should avoid driving in hilly areas until the rain has eased off , " mr howells added .
temporary shelters are open to hut occupants taking refuge from landslips .
the addresses of the nearest temporary shelters can be obtained by dialling the home affairs department 's hotline on $number $number .
consumer price indices for $date the census and statistics department today ( friday ) released the consumer price index (cpi) figures for $date .
the year - on - year rate of increase in the consumer price index (a) was $number in $date , higher than that of $number in $date .
the year - on - year rates of increase in the consumer price index (b) and hang seng cpi were also higher in $date than in $date $number against $number for the cpi ( b ) and $number against $number for the hang seng cpi .
the composite cpi , which is compiled based on the combined expenditure pattern of households covered by the three sub - indices , showed a year - on - year increase of $number in $date , higher than that of $number in $date .
the faster year - on - year increases in the cpi ( a ) and cpi ( b ) in $date than in $date were mainly due to a surge in the prices of vegetables by $number in $date .
caused by the prolonged rainy weather , the rate of increase in the prices of vegetables during the month was the highest recorded within a single month over the past two decades .
as for the hang seng cpi , the faster increase in $date than in $date was mainly due to higher prices of vegetables , and a faster year - on - year increase in the prices of outerclothing .
analysed by component , faster year - on - year increases than the overall average in $date were recorded for housing ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) ; clothing and footwear ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) and food ( excluding meals bought away from home ) ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) .
meanwhile , those components with slower year - on - year increases in prices than the overall average were transport ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) ; durable goods ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) ; miscellaneous goods ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) ; meals bought away from home ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) ; miscellaneous services ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) ; alcoholic drinks and tobacco ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) and fuel and light ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) .
comparing $date with $date , the cpi ( a ) and cpi ( b ) increased by $number and $number respectively .
the corresponding increases for the hang seng cpi and composite cpi were $number and $number respectively .
taking $number seven months of $number together , the increases in the cpi ( a ) and cpi ( b ) averaged at $number and $number respectively over a year earlier .
the corresponding increases for the hang seng cpi and composite cpi were $number and $number respectively .
for the three months ended $date , the cpi ( a ) and cpi ( b ) , on average , increased by $number and $number respectively over a year earlier .
the corresponding increases for the hang seng cpi and composite cpi were $number and $number respectively .
for the $number - month ended $date , the cpi ( a ) and cpi ( b ) , on average , increased by $number and $number respectively than the preceding $number - month period .
the corresponding increases for the hang seng cpi and composite cpi were $number and $number respectively .
the seasonally adjusted monthly rates of increase in both the cpi ( a ) and cpi ( b ) averaged at $number and $number respectively during the three months ended $date .
the corresponding increases for the hang seng cpi and composite cpi were $number and $number respectively .
meanwhile , more information are given in the " consumer price index report " for $date , which is available at $ $number per copy from the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong ; or from the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number / f , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
for local and overseas mailings , contact should be made with the information services department , $number / f , siu on centre , $number lockhart road , wan chai , hong kong .
for enquiries about the indices , please telephone the consumer price index section of the census and statistics department at $number $number .
water cut in southern district fresh and flushing water supply to some premises in southern district will be suspended from $number pm on monday ( $date ) to $number am the following day for waste detection work on watermains .
the suspension will affect all premises in the area bounded by tung tau wan road , stanley link road , hoi fung path , stanley main road , stanley new street , stanley market road , $number ( even nos . ) and $number stanley village road .
suspension of ed enquiry system due to the improvement work on the electricity supply in wu chung house , service of the education department 's $number - hour automatic telephone enquiry system at $number $number will be suspended from tomorrow ( saturday ) at noon to monday ( $date ) at $number am inclusive .
ching cheung road to reopen tomorrow the ching cheung road section between butterfly valley road and tai po road will be fully re - opened to two - way traffic at $number am tomorrow ( sunday ) .
at the same time , all related slip roads leading to and from the section of ching cheung road will also be re - opened to traffic .
a spokesman for the highways department said today ( saturday ) : " slope stabilisation works have been carried out in the past three weeks to prepare for the full reopening of ching cheung road .
" the decision to re - open the road was made after a joint site inspection by representatives of highways department , geotechnical engineering office , transport department and the police .
" it was agreed that with the stabilisation measures completed so far , it would be safe to open the road to traffic again . " he said stabilisation works had been carried out in two stages following the slope failure on $date .
the works completed before $date included : * construction of a $number - metre high and $number - metre long temporary retaining wall ; * protective work to the existing electric cable at the toe of the slope ; * filling of approximately $number tonnes of granular materials at the failure spot to enhance slope stability ; * removal of $number cubic metres of loose materials from the slope ; * formation of a temporary access to the top of the slope to facilitate stabilisation works ; * completion of $number per cent of the shotcrete work on the slope surface ; and * completion of intercepting drainage system at the top of the slope .
further works completed between $date included : * completion of shotcrete work on slope surface ; * installation of soil nails at the failed slope ; and * construction of an additional surface drainage system on the slope .
" additional works comprising installation of soil nails and groundwater drains will continue to be carried out to further increase the slope safety margin . the stability of the slope will also be closely monitored by means of survey points and instrumentation , " the spokesman added .
on public transport , kowloon motor bus routes $number , 4 2 c , 6 1 x and 6 2 x and citybus route e22 will resume normal routings from tomorrow .
wsd encouraged by poll results results of two opinion surveys have shown that most customers are satisfied with the services provided by the water supplies department (wsd) .
the surveys were on the department 's customers services and technical complaints & fault recovery service . they were completed with the support of the government secretariat 's efficiency unit in $date by an independent research company .
in both surveys , the customers considered the performance of the department 's staff good although between four and $number held a different view in certain areas .
" we are encouraged by these findings , but at the same time , realise there is room for improvement , " a wsd spokesman said today ( saturday ) .
" we are looking into ways to introduce improvements as speedily as we can , " the spokesman added .
in $number survey , $number domestic customers were interviewed and $number per cent of them considered the overall performance of the customers services good . $number of them held an opposite view and $number per cent rated them average .
of the $number domestic complainants interviewed in $number survey , $number per cent said the overall service of the technical complaints centres was good , $number per cent average and $number poor .
also $number per cent found the overall service of the fault repair teams good , $number per cent average and $number poor .
the surveys also found few respondents aware of the wsd 's various customer enquiries and complaints services despite their need for these services .
at the same time , many customers did not realise it was their responsibility to maintain service pipes inside their premises .
" there is clearly a need for us to step up publicity in these areas and we will certainly do that , " the spokesman said .
" some respondents said they had had difficulties getting through our hotlines for account - related enquiries and technical fault reports , " he said .
" we have launched a programme to upgrade these hotlines and more staff will be deployed to man them , " he went on , adding that marked improvement could be seen in mid $number .
" we will conduct similar surveys in the future to measure the results and progress of our improvement works and to gauge customers ' expectation on our services , " the spokesman said .
labour department published $number departmental newsletter the labour department has published $number issue of a departmental newsletter " labour focus " to help local employers and employees grasp the latest development on labour related issues .
the newsletter - a bi - lingual quarterly publication - includes articles contributed by the department 's four divisions - labour relations , employment services , occupational safety and health and employment rights and benefits .
in the foreword , the commissioner for labour , miss jacqueline willis , said that the aim of the newsletter is to provide up - to - date information on new legislation and labour issues of concern to both employers and employees .
" during the past $number months , we have enacted a total of $number pieces of legislation to improve the well - being of employees , including the occupational safety and health ordinance which extends safety and health protection to employees in the non - industrial sectors . "
two articles on this new ordinance were carried in $number issue of the newsletter so that employers and employees can know more about it .
the recent amendments of the employment ordinance which has become effective on $date were also prominently reported in the newsletter .
the amendments include employment protection , maternity protection , wage protection , end of year payment , long service payment and statutory holidays .
miss willis hoped the readers would enjoy reading the newsletter and find it useful and informative .
sorrow expressed over the death of mr wong wan - tin the acting secretary for home affairs , mr lee lap - sun , and members of the chinese temples committee expressed their deep sorrow for the death of mr wong wan - tin , obe , jp , who has been a member of the committee for $number years .
mr lee said , " mr wong wan - tin has displayed great enthusiasm in serving the community and has undertaken many public duties . a member of the chinese temples committee for $number years $date , he is profoundly associated with the committee . from $number he made very substantial contributions also as a member of the board of management of the chinese permanent cemeteries .
" in addition to these public duties , mr wong has been a vice - chairman of the hong kong buddhist association $date and chairman of the sik sik yuen $date .
in these capacities , mr wong has done his utmost to promote education and develop services for the elderly .
" for many years , mr wong wan - tin has devoted himself to serving the public and made enormous contributions to the society . the home affairs bureau has benefited a lot from his selfless devotion .
fresh water cut in tsuen wan and sha tin fresh water supply to some premises in tsuen wan and sha tin will be suspended from $number pm on tuesday ( $date ) to $number am the following day for waste detection work on watermains .
in tsuen wan , the suspension will affect all premises in the area bounded by luen yan street , sha tsui road , chuen lung street and yeung uk road .
meanwhile , in sha tin , the suspension will affect a section of mei tin road between chik fai street and shing mun river channel , heung fan liu street and pik tin street , including heung fan liu and mui lee temporary housing area .
wages must be paid on time the labour department reminded employers to pay their employees on time , otherwise they will face severe punishment .
acting senior labour officer ( prosecutions ) , mr lee wing - keung gave this reminder today ( sunday ) following two recent court cases in which st chare corporation limited and doncrop industries limited were fined $ $number and $ $number at the western magistracy and kwun tong magistracy respectively for failing to pay wages and other items to their employees .
" under section $number of the employment ordinance , wages are due at the end of the wage period , and must be cleared as soon as practicable and in any case , not later than seven days after the end of the period , " mr lee said .
" moreover , section $number of the ordinance stipulates that where a contract of employment is terminated , wages should be paid to the employee on the day of termination and in any case , not later than seven days after termination of employment . "
any employer who fails to comply with these provisions commits an offence which upon conviction may incur a fine of $ $number and one year 's imprisonment .
" to safeguard their rights , employees whose wages are not paid within the statutory period should approach the labour relations service for advice and assistance as soon as possible , " mr lee added .
wsd invites applications for reservoir fishing licence anglers wishing to indulge their hobby in local reservoirs during the coming fishing season must apply for a licence from the water supplies department starting tomorrow ( monday ) .
the licence will be valid from $date ( monday ) to $date ( tuesday ) next year .
applicants may call at the department 's customer enquiry centres during office hours at the following addresses : * $number floor , immigration tower , $number gloucester road , wan chai , hong kong ; * ground floor , perfect mount gardens , po man street , shau kei wan , hong kong ; * ground floor , $number sai yee street , mong kok , kowloon ; and * $number floor , ngau tau kok government offices , $number on wah street , kowloon .
applicants are required to produce their identity cards and pay a licence fee of $ $number .
applications can also be made by post to the department 's headquarters on the $number floor , immigration tower , giving the applicant 's name , address , photocopy of his identity card , together with a crossed cheque for $ $number payable to " the government of the hong kong special administrative region " .
a licence will then be sent to the applicant by post .
however , no licence will be issued to residents under the age of $number .
anglers have to observe certain rules while fishing in reservoirs . they should not use a net or tools other than rods and lines . explosives and toxic substances are prohibited , as are boats , dinghies and rafts .
fs 's speech *** following is a speech by the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , at the international business conference of the new south wales state chamber of commerce , sydney , australia today ( monday ) : hong kong : looking towards the future distinguished guests , chamber members , ladies and gentlemen , i am very happy to have lunch with you today and to be given this opportunity to talk about the future of my home hong kong , or ' honkers ' as i 've heard it referred to by some of my antipodean acquaintances .
as a lover of good wine i am also happy to be in the state which produces those excellent hunter valley reds i have sampled in hong kong .
unfortunately , my tight schedule does not afford me the luxury of a visit to the area but i may just find a minute or two to pop into one of your well - stocked wine shops before heading home .
i am certain many , if not all , of you saw something of the historic handover events which marked the establishment , on $date , of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china .
more than $number australians live in hong kong , and i 'm sure quite a few aussie tourists visited us during that period , so perhaps you even had friends or relatives who joined in the celebrations .
the events of $date marked a new chapter - - the beginning of a new era - - in hong kong 's history and this is what i would like to talk about today .
i hope that what i tell you today sheds some light on the realities of life in the hong kong sar and puts to rest some of the more negative or over - simplistic assessments of what the future holds for hong kong .
for many years now , people have been asking : " what 's going to happen $date ? "
my answer has always been the same : " not much will change . "
now , almost two months after the handover , the reality is as we predicted - there has been no big change .
indeed , i suspect many of the prophets of doom have been disappointed in what has transpired since the handover - - the economy has not collapsed , the civil service has not fallen apart , people have not been leaving in droves and the stock market has not crashed .
and these were some of the more optimistic predictions we had to live with during the transition period , from the time the sino - british joint declaration on the question of hong kong was signed in $date , until the handover itself on $date .
in fact , it has been very much business as usual .
nowadays in hong kong that means an economy growing at $number per annum ; a corruption - free , highly - trained and dedicated civil service ; a net inflow of people ; and record highs on the stock market .
there has been one significant , historic , change and that , of course , is china 's resumption of the exercise of sovereignty over hong kong under the unique concept of ' one country , two systems ' .
the framework and implementation of this concept was devised by our late patriarch mr deng xiaoping and is very clearly spelt out in our basic law , hong kong 's mini - constitution since $date .
the basic law is a chinese national law . it is an extremely important document .
in any discussions about the future of hong kong you will always hear mention of it .
the basic law lays the foundations for the continued prosperity and stability of hong kong . it is our road map for the future .
it guarantees our way of life in hong kong for at least $number years . it gives us a high degree of autonomy to conduct our own political , economic , social and cultural affairs .
it clearly sets our capitalist system apart from the socialist system practised on our motherland .
i have great faith that the leaders of our country want to see the basic law implemented successfully and to see hong kong 's star continue to rise .
during the handover events our senior leaders , president jiang zemin , premier li peng and foreign minister qian qichen all made it very clear they were determined to see the ' one country , two systems ' concept successfully implemented .
it is , after all , a matter of considerable pride to our nation to ensure hong kong 's continued economic development and social stability .
it is also up to the people of hong kong themselves to stand up for their rights and freedoms as spelt out in the basic law . to do any less would be foolish , to say the least .
and in $number two months of life of the sar , hong kong people have been doing just that - - exercising their rights , as they should , of free speech , of demonstration , of scrutinising government policies and decisions .
we have an average some $number demonstrations a week , from human rights , labour issues , environment concerns , as usual .
the government is still being perfunctorily taken to court , on migrants issues , on legality of the legislature , as usual .
public pressure on the government to be open and responsive , to serve the community , is as great now as it was before $date .
this is all part of the fabric of hong kong . it is part of our way of life .
we are proud of it .
disparaging cartoons and articles on my boss , the chief executive , myself and other senior figures appear in our printed media everyday , as usual .
we have , as you may not know , some $number newspapers for a population of $number .
life in hong kong , is fun , as usual .
a recent report by the political and economic risk consultancy says hong kong 's political risk factor has actually dropped since the handover when compared to a year ago .
the report said , and i quote : " hong kong is still the region 's premier business centre . "
encouraging words may be , but actually not that surprising to those who really know what make hong kong tick .
the basic law embodies all of the ingredients which have made hong kong the success it is today .
these ingredients , which i often refer to as the four pillars of hong kong 's success , include : * the free flow of information , free speech and a free and open press ; * a level playing field for all who do business in hong kong ; * the rule of law upheld by an independent judiciary ; and * prudent fiscal policy and limiting the growth of public spending to within the growth of the economy .
so , while the basic law has only been in force for just under two months , the basic tenets it upholds have been part of the hong kong recipe for success for many , many years .
i mention these aspects to give you a picture of the solid foundations upon which hong kong has been built and will continue to be built .
let me stress , there has not been , and there will not be , a change in the basic philosophies which have served us so well for so many years .
now , let me turn towards the future , which i believe many in hong kong are looking at with a great deal of optimism .
it has often been said that the dawning of the new millennium will herald the beginning of the pacific century , when the pacific rim economies will come to the fore on the global stage .
i know that over the past decade , for example , the focus of australia 's trade efforts has turned more towards its asia - pacific neighbours where there is strong - sometimes double digit - economic growth and there is an emerging and more affluent middle class with more money to spend on your goods and services .
this can be seen in your own trade figures , which show that $number of australia 's top $number trading partners - - including new zealand - - are in the asia - pacific region , accounting for $number per cent of your total trade $date .
mainland china is australia 's $number largest trading partner . taiwan comes in at number seven ; while hong kong is at number $number .
these three " chinese markets " , if i can call them that , accounted for $number per cent of australia 's trade last year .
but it is not only you in australia who are pursuing these asian markets , which are expected to grow by an average of $number per cent per annum in the short to medium term .
so , too , are we in hong kong . in fact , $number of our top $number trading partners are in the asia - pacific region .
we have economic and trade offices in sydney , tokyo and singapore which give our companies direct links to those markets while at the same time helping overseas businesses to set up shop in hong kong and , indirectly , in mainland china .
we expect to open more such offices as other asian 'tiger ' economies begin to roar .
i have no doubt that hong kong - described by austrade as an economic tiger with " a globally significant , mature economy " - is well placed to become a pacific powerhouse , if indeed , it already has not .
there are several compelling reasons .
$number is undoubtedly hong kong 's long - standing and symbiotic relationship with mainland china .
this is especially significant now that hong kong has been reunified with the mainland .
in simple terms , hong kong will play an even greater role as china 's window on the world while more overseas and multi - national companies will use hong kong as a launch pad for their investment and trade drives into china .
since china opened its doors to the world $date there has been remarkable economic change and growth , unmatched by any other economies in recent history .
even in hong kong , it is sometimes hard to fathom the enormity of the chinese market .
and it is growing at the rate of $number per annum in real terms , so it will get even huger .
and of course hong kong is well - placed to take advantage of this economic phenomenon .
we have a highly trained , hard - working and competent workforce . we have the skills , the management expertise , the knowledge , the language and the cultural and geographical links needed to do business in mainland china .
hong kong is the biggest external investor in mainland china by a long way , accounting for $number per cent of all external investments .
by the end of $number , hong kong companies had invested $number us dollars in mainland china .
chinese enterprises are $number largest external investors in hong kong and we expect them to edge their way towards the top of the list in the years to come .
i 'm sure many of you have also heard talk that shanghai will one day eclipse hong kong , that the chinese leadership will pay more attention to the ' paris of the east ' than to the ' pearl of the orient ' .
that shanghai will develop a role as a leading financial centre is beyond doubt . but the nature of shanghai 's role and that of hong kong are different and complementary .
in simple terms , we believe , as the mayor of shanghai has said , that the relationship is this : hong kong will take care of international business ; shanghai will take care of domestic business .
i could spend $time alone talking about the hong kong - shanghai relationship but i think it 's best that i finish on this point by stating that whatever transpires there will be plenty of business for us both .
there is no doubt about that .
my $number reason for confidence in the future is the nature of hong kong 's economy , now heavily geared towards services industries .
almost $number per cent of our gdp is related to service industries .
we are asia 's leading tourist destination ; we have the world 's busiest container port ; we are the world 's busiest airport for international air cargo ; we have the world 's $number largest stock market ; we are a regional communications hub .
we are one of the world 's leading financial centres , with $number banks or deposit taking companies - including $number of the world 's top $number - from $number countries based in hong kong .
i am sure many of you , at one stage or another in your life , have had something inside your home with the famous ' made in hong kong ' brand stuck on the back .
hopefully , you still have .
but because of the big change in the nature of our economy - especially the re - configuration of our manufacturing industry - you are now more than likely to have a product ' made by hong kong ' .
there has been some criticism that our economy relies too heavily on service industries , that we are overweighed in this sector .
on this point i have to strongly disagree .
the hong kong economy has evolved the way it has because that 's what the market wanted .
there is minimal - and i mean absolute minimal - government interference in the direction of economic development .
what the government does , and it does it well , is to provide the legal , administrative and infrastructural framework for the market to pursue its goals .
manufacturing is an excellent example .
the limited supply , and high cost , of land in hong kong , as well as higher labour overheads and a finite labour supply , has led many hong kong manufacturers to set up production plants in mainland china to complement their operations in hong kong .
we estimate that in adjoining guangdong province alone there are some $number people - that 's $number more than the entire hong kong workforce - employed by enterprises either wholly or partly owned by hong kong companies .
so now the toys , watches , electronics products and clothes are made in mainland china , transported to hong kong and then trans - shipped across the globe , using the banking and financial infrastructure based in hong kong .
re - exports now account for $number per cent of our total trade , compared to $number per cent $number years ago and only $number per cent $number years ago .
the hong kong economy has transformed itself from one which made things , to one which makes things happen . some critics have argued that the government should do more to retain the labour intensive operations of our manufacturers in hong kong .
but why should the government take such an approach when the market clearly does not want to keep those operations in hong kong ?
so , i see the hong kong economy evolving in much the same way as it has all along - with minimal government intervention and maximum private sector participation .
taking this a step further i see hong kong continuing to develop its role as the premier services centre in the asia - pacific region . we are not only perfectly placed to facilitate business in china and vice versa , but we are ideally located to become a bigger regional player by exporting our management and technical expertise and helping to facilitate the major infrastructural development of other asian countries through such things as syndicated loans and the raising and financing of joint - venture capital .
another reason that i see a bright future ahead for hong kong is because we approach the next century in extremely good financial shape .
we are actually obliged by the basic law to strive for fiscal balance and to limit public spending within the limits of gdp growth .
at the moment , hong kong has something like $ $number us dollars in the bank , of which some $ $number is held in foreign currency . and we have no debt .
that gives you an idea of the 'safety cushion ' we have built up over the years .
at the same time we continue to plan for , and build , the massive infrastructure needed to keep our economy competitive - without having to dip into reserves .
we have spent almost $number us dollars on our new airport and related developments , which include two of the world 's longest bridges , a dedicated express railway line , a new town which will ultimately house $number people , a new cross - harbour tunnel , $number - kilometres of six - lane expressways and major reclamation to provide new land for commercial development and housing .
all this , without involving the government in borrowing a cent from the public .
in fact , once we develop the reclaimed land and the new town we expect to recoup all of the costs and then make a handsome profit .
the new airport will be run by the airport authority , which will also be expected to pay the government a dividend on its operating profits after a certain period .
we are now embarking upon a major upgrade and expansion of our already excellent railway service , to relieve pressure on congested lines and to bring fast , cheap and efficient transport to those living in new urban areas .
the two railway corporations operating in hong kong are wholly - government - owned but run as separate businesses with their own staff .
they are not only required to provide excellent service to the public - they are also bound to pay the public purse a dividend on their operations .
our port - the busiest container port in the world - is built and run by private enterprise .
apart from some of the infrastructure which serves the port , such as roads , government spending on the port is kept to the absolute minimum .
however , the fiscal benefits the port brings by way of taxes paid by the port operators far outweigh any initial outlay on roads or parking spaces for container trucks .
our tax system is very simple and , we believe , very fair .
individuals pay a maximum of $number per cent , while corporations pay $number per cent on their profits .
for example , a single taxpayer will need to earn the equivalent of just $number australian dollars a year before paying tax at the full rate of $number per cent .
not surprisingly , the incidence of tax evasion is low .
one final - and perhaps the most important - reason i have every confidence in the future of hong kong is the $number people who call hong kong their home .
hong kong people have time and again demonstrated a 'can - do ' spirit and an entrepreneurial flair which has allowed them to build a better life for themselves and their families .
the will to succeed is something which has become a part of the hong kong psyche .
it has been borne out of a society where everyone is given an equal chance at success ; where a quality education is available to all who are willing to learn ; where good , old - fashioned hard work and determination are the norm , rather than the exception .
i am convinced that hong kong people will waste no time seizing the world of opportunities which will present themselves following the reunification of china and that hong kong will continue to develop its role not only as a pacific powerhouse , but also as a global economic player .
i am equally certain that hong kong will remain one of the most open , free , exciting and cosmopolitan cities on earth .
i believe in australia you would say : " she 'll be right , mate ! "
hk as pacific powerhouse and a global economic player : fs the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , today ( monday ) expressed his optimism and confidence in the future of hong kong not only as a pacific powerhouse , but also as a global economic player .
he said : " i see hong kong continuing to develop its role as the premier service centre in the asia pacific region .
i am equally certain that hong kong will remain one of the most open , free , exciting and cosmopolitan cities on earth . "
mr tsang was addressing a luncheon in sydney , australia organised by the new south wales state chamber of commerce as part of an international business conference .
his address , entitled " hong kong : looking towards the future " , was $number of a series of three major speeches which he would be making in sydney and melbourne .
the financial secretary told the business community in sydney that apart from the historic change of china 's resumption of the exercise of sovereignty over hong kong under the unique concept of ' one country , two systems ' , it had been very much business as usual in hong kong after the handover .
" the basic law lays the foundations for the continued prosperity and stability of hong kong . it is our road map for the future .
" it clearly sets our capitalist system apart from the socialist system practised on our motherland .
" i have great faith that the leaders of our country want to see the basic law implemented successfully and to see hong kong 's star continue to rise , " he said .
he noted that the basic law embodied all the four pillars of hong kong 's success - free flow of information , a level playing field , rule of law and prudent fiscal policy .
" while the basic law has only been in force for just under two months , the basic tenets it upholds have been part of the hong kong recipe for success for many , many years , " he said , stressing that there had not been and would not be any change in these basic philosophies .
turning to the future , mr tsang believed that as a globally significant , mature economy , hong kong was well placed to become a pacific powerhouse for several compelling reasons .
" $number is undoubtedly hong kong 's long - standing and symbiotic relationship with mainland china , " he said .
" hong kong will play an even greater role as china 's window on the world while more overseas and multi - national companies will use hong kong as a launch pad for their investment and trade drives into china . "
noting the enormity of the chinese market , mr tsang said hong kong was well - placed to take advantage of this economic phenomenon .
" hong kong is the biggest external investor in mainland china by a long way , accounting for $number per cent of all external investments .
by the end of $number , hong kong companies had invested $number us dollars in mainland china , " he added .
$number reason for mr tsang 's confidence in the future was the nature of hong kong 's economy , now heavily geared towards services industries .
he noted that almost $number per cent of our gdp was related to service industries .
not only was hong kong one of the world 's leading financial centres , it was also asia 's leading tourist destinations and the world 's busiest airport for international air cargo .
moreover , hong kong was also a regional communications hub and it had the world 's $number largest stock market .
" the hong kong economy has evolved the way it has because that 's what the market wanted . there is minimal government interference in the direction of economic development , " he said .
" what government does , and it does it well , is to provide the legal , administrative and infrastructural framework for the market to pursue its goals . "
quoting manufacturing as an excellent example , mr tsang said : " the limited supply , and high cost , of land in hong kong , as well as higher labour overheads and a finite labour supply , has led many hong kong manufacturers to set up production plants in mainland china to complement their operations in hong kong .
" we estimate that in adjoining guangdong province alone there are some $number people employed by enterprises either wholly or partly owned by hong kong companies .
" so now the toys , watches , electronics products and cloths are made in mainland china , transported to hong kong and then trans - shipped across the globe , using the banking and financial infrastructure based in hong kong .
re - exports now account for $number per cent of our total trade , compared to $number per cent $number years ago and only $number per cent $number years ago . "
mr tsang said the hong kong economy had transformed itself from one which made things , to one which made things happen .
" taking this a step further , i see hong kong continuing to develop its role as the premier services centre in the asia - pacific region , " he said . " we are not only perfectly placed to facilitate business in china and vice versa , but we are ideally located to become a bigger regional player by exporting our management and technical expertise and helping to facilitate the major infrastructural development of other asian countries through such things as syndicated loans and the raising and financing of joint - venture capital . "
$number reason which mr tsang saw a bright future ahead for hong kong was its extremely good financial shape .
" we are actually obliged by the basic law to strive for fiscal balance and to limit public spending within the limits of gdp growth , " he said .
" at the moment , hong kong has something like $ $number us dollars in the bank , of which some $ $number is held in foreign currency . and we have no debt .
at the same time , we continue to plan for , and build , the massive infrastructure needed to keep our economy competitive without having to dip into reserves . "
he cited the airport and related developments , the planned upgrading and expansion of hong kong 's railway service and hong kong 's port as examples of such infrastructures which would bring fiscal benefits to the public purse .
on top of this , mr tsang said hong kong 's tax system was very simple and fair with individuals paying a maximum of $number per cent while corporations paying $number per cent on their profits .
the final and most important reason for his confidence in hong kong 's future was its $number people .
he said : " hong kong people have time and again demonstrated a 'can - do ' spirit and an entrepreneurial flair which has allowed them to build a better life for themselves and their families .
" the will to succeed is something which has become a part of the hong kong psyche . "
mr tsang said it had been borne out of a society where everyone was given an equal chance at success ; where a quality education was available to all who were willing to learn ; where good , old - fashioned hard work and determination were the norm .
" i am convinced that hong kong people will waste no time seizing the world of opportunities which will present themselves following the reunification of china and that hong kong will continue to develop its role not only as pacific powerhouse , but also as a global economic player , " he concluded .
earlier today , the financial secretary had called on the hon robert john carr , premier of new south wales and had a meeting with mr ian macfarlane , governor of reserve bank .
later in the day , mr tsang would be calling on the hon michael egan , treasurer , minister for state and regional development , and minister for energy .
he would attend a boardroom dinner in the evening .
provisional statistics of retail sales for $date the value of total retail sales in $date , estimated at $ $number , increased by $number when compared with $date .
after discounting the effect of price changes over the period , total retail sales increased by $number in volume .
these are provisional figures on retail sales released today ( monday ) by the census and statistics department .
compared with a year ago , sales of motor vehicles continued to record a significant increase , by $number in value and $number in volume .
sales of jewellery , watches and clocks and valuable gifts also surged , by $number in both value and volume .
concurrently , sales in other types of outlets also recorded increases of various magnitudes in both value and volume . sales in these outlets included other consumer durable goods ( $number in value and $number in volume ) ; miscellaneous consumer goods ( $number in value and $number in volume ) ; fuels ( $number in value and $number in volume ) and food , alcoholic drinks and tobacco ( $number in both value and volume ) .
on the other hand , sales in supermarkets increased by $number in value , but declined by $number in volume .
similarly , sales of clothing and footwear rose by $number in value , but decreased by $number in volume .
sales in department stores decreased by $number in value and $number in volume .
compared with $date ( but bearing in mind that this comparison is affected by seasonal factors ) , total retail sales in $date decreased by $number in both value and volume .
comparing the period $date with the same period $date , total retail sales rose by $number in value and $number in volume .
the volume of retail sales is derived from the value of retail sales after adjusting for price changes . the relevant components of the consumer price index are used as deflators .
the report containing the analysis of the $date results is now on sale at $ $number per copy at the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway ; and the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries about the survey results may be directed to the wholesale and retail trade statistics section of the census and statistics department ( tel . no. : $number $number ) .
undischarged bankrupt found guilty of insolvency offence the official receiver , acting upon authorisation by the secretary for justice , laid information against mr cheung long chung ( the defendant ) for three counts of obtaining credit without $number informing the person from whom credit was obtained that he was an undischarged bankrupt , contrary to section $number of bankruptcy ordinance .
the defendant having previously been found guilty , was sentenced to one month imprisonment at the eastern magistracy last saturday ( $date ) on each count to be carried out consecutively , that is , a total of three months imprisonment .
the official receiver further laid information against the defendant for running the business , finance and administration of the hong kong office of pario international limited , contrary to section $number of the companies ordinance .
the ordinance provided that an undischarged bankrupt shall not directly or indirectly take part in or be concerned in the management of a limited company without leave of the court .
the defendant was found guilty and was sentenced to three months imprisonment at the eastern magistracy on the same day .
the defendant has with leave of the court lodged an appeal against sentence .
$date issue of hk monthly digest of statistics for sale two feature articles entitled " statistics on employment and vacancies for $number " and " doctor consultation among hong kong residents " are published in the $date issue of the hong kong monthly digest of statistics , which is now on sale .
statistics on employment and vacancies for $number - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - this article presents the survey methodology in relation to the collection and compilation of the employment and vacancy statistics by the census and statistics department .
the employment and vacancy statistics $number are presented in this article .
the figures show that while there was steady growth in total employment in the past $number years , there were significant structural changes in the employment distribution in the period .
the share of employment in the manufacturing sector dropped significantly .
on the other hand , remarkable growth in employment was observed in all the services sectors .
contrary to the steady growth in employment , the total number of vacancies fluctuated during the $number years period .
apart from the distribution of employment and vacancies by industry , this article also compares the size of establishments among different industry sectors .
in addition , the distribution of employment by region is also covered .
doctor consultation among hong kong residents - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - public demand for doctor consultation is increasing with the growth in size and the ageing of hong kong 's population .
this article presents the characteristics of persons who had consulted a doctor during the fourteen days before enumeration and also the details of the respective consultations based on the findings of a statistical enquiry on " doctor consultation " conducted during may to $date .
analysis was made on the age , sex and activity status of such persons , and on the number of consultations made during the fourteen days before enumeration , type of doctor consulted and amount of expenses incurred .
the $date issue of the hong kong monthly digest of statistics is now on sale at $ $number a copy .
in addition to the above two feature articles , it contains the most up - to - date information on hong kong 's development regarding economic growth , labour market , inflation and many other social and economic issues .
purchase of this publication can be made at the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong . the publication is also available for sale at the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
regular subscription can also be arranged with the publications sales office of the information services department ( tel : $number $number ) .
flushing water cut in sham shui po , mong kok and lai chi kok flushing water supply to some premises in sham shui po , mong kok and lai chi kok will be suspended from $number pm tomorrow ( $date ) to $number am the following day for watermain works .
the suspension will affect all premises in the area bounded by castle peak road , po lun street , sham shui po seafront , cherry street , tong mei road , mong kok road , sai yee street , bute street , cornwall street , nam cheong street and ching cheung road , including the kowloon canton railway corporation kowloon tong and mong kok railway stations .
fs 's speech *** following is a speech by the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , at the briefing for the australian securities institute , sydney , australia today ( tuesday ) : one country , two systems ladies and gentlemen , let me start by thanking the institute for organising this briefing .
hong kong returned to the people 's republic of china just eight weeks ago .
it has since embarked upon a new era , an era guided by the " one country , two systems " concept , conceived by our late patriarch mr deng xiaoping and enshrined in the basic law , the mini constitution of the hong kong special administrative region .
at the ceremony to mark the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region , or hong kong sar for short , the president of our country mr jiang zemin emphasised the importance of maintaining hong kong 's capitalist way of life separate from the socialist system practised in the mainland .
indeed , i cannot emphasise more the importance of keeping the two systems separate and independent for the long term prosperity of hong kong .
this said , i think it is equally important to understand how the two systems , being so different in nature , interact within " one country " , bearing in mind the very strong linkages already established between them .
being a practitioner in the securities market , you will no doubt be especially interested to know how the " one country , two systems " principle translates into practical arrangements in the financial and monetary areas . let me $number of all give you an overview of the " one country , two systems " principle .
why " one country , two systems " ? - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - this principle , enshrined in the sino - british joint declaration and the basic law , guarantees that hong kong will maintain its previous social , economic and financial systems after $date .
the hong kong sar and the mainland of china are operating under fundamentally different economic systems and are undergoing different speed and stages of development .
the " one country , two systems " concept recognises this difference and allows both systems to evolve along different paths to the benefit of both .
hong kong is a market economy operating under a capitalist system .
a number of ingredients can explain its past success , in particular its miraculous growth in recent years into an international financial centre .
these are a high savings rate , a dedicated and flexible labour force with good education and professional training , a well - established and properly supervised banking sector , advanced infrastructure for the financial markets , fiscal and monetary prudence , a government supporting the private sector but not imposing government leadership on economic development , and last but not the least , the rule of law .
as regards the mainland of china , it has come a long way $date in moving away from a command economy to a more market - oriented economy .
our central government has made important and significant progress in reforming its public finances , liberalising its exchange control which led to partial convertibility for the renminbi , commercialising and upgrading its banking sector , as well as modernising its financial market infrastructure .
however , the mainland economy continues to operate within a socialist system , rooted to a large extent in central administrative control .
what exactly is " one country , two systems " ? - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - building on the " one country , two systems " principle , the basic law stipulates that the hong kong sar will enjoy a high degree of autonomy other than in foreign affairs and national defence . the sar will formulate its own monetary and financial policies . the hong kong dollar shall remain the only legal tender in the sar .
in other words , even if the renminbi becomes fully convertible $date , it will not and cannot take the place of the hong kong dollar in accordance with the constitutional arrangements promulgated in the basic law .
furthermore , no exchange control policy shall apply in hong kong . and the sar shall safeguard the free flow of capital .
at the moment , hong kong has something like $ $number us dollars in the bank , of which $ $number is held in foreign currency . this amount of money shall be managed by the sar government on its own .
the sar shall have independent finances and the central people 's government shall not levy taxes in the sar .
the above arrangements , in monetary terms , mean that there shall be one country , two currencies , two monetary systems and two monetary authorities after $date , and that they shall be mutually independent .
senior mainland officials have on various occasions reiterated this policy .
let me now elaborate briefly on each aspect of this formula .
the " two currencies " principle means that renminbi will continue to be regarded as a foreign currency in hong kong . the hong kong dollar will also be regarded as a foreign currency in the mainland of china .
as far as the hong kong dollar is concerned , it will continue to be linked to the us dollar , a system which has served hong kong well since $date .
the current exchange rate regime has lasted for almost $number years . during the period the link with the us dollar has remained stable while confidence in the local currency has grown .
this has been clearly demonstrated again during the recent volatility in the currency markets in asia , in which the hong kong dollar has remained remarkably stable throughout .
corresponding to the two mutually independent currencies are two mutually independent monetary systems .
to ensure that the two mutually independent monetary systems are properly managed , it is essential that the two monetary authorities , the people 's bank of china in the mainland and the hong kong monetary authority in the hksar , would remain separate and independent of each other .
in the securities markets , the separate configuration is equally visible .
we have in hong kong a three - tiered regulatory framework which is distinct and separate from the regulatory regime in the mainland .
the frontline self - regulated entities are the two exchanges and their related clearing companies , which are required under the law to provide an orderly and fair market place for securities and futures trading .
they are subject to the supervision of the securities and futures commission (sfc) , which is established by law outside the government as $number tier market regulator .
as non - government regulators in the market in their own right , the sfc is a full and active member of the international organisation of securities commissions and , likewise , our stock exchange is a member of fibv ( federation internationale des bourses de valeurs ) .
these entities are separate and independent from but yet maintain close cooperation with their mainland counterparts .
at the government level , the financial services bureau is responsible for ensuring that the sar has in place an adequate and efficient policy and legislative framework conducive to a favourable and fair environment for the securities industry and to proper protection for investors .
in our three - tier regulatory system , government intervention with the operation of the market are consciously controlled to the minimum and the market forces are free to prevail within the limits of the law .
this market - oriented philosophy is obviously distinct from that of the mainland market where direct state involvement is still the norm .
one should not , nevertheless , assume that hong kong 's continued prosperity emanates entirely from its own economic strength .
indeed , its geography , being at the heart of a high growth region and its proximity to , and as a part of , china , will continue to be the source of hong kong 's vitality .
this underlines the importance of the " one country " dimension of " one country , two systems " formula .
over the years , close links have been developed between the economies and financial markets of hong kong and mainland china .
there are plenty of examples to demonstrate this rapidly evolving synergy .
$number , in banking , the number of branches established by hong kong banks in the mainland has more than doubled in the past five years to $number .
meanwhile , $number mainland - owned banking institutions are operating in hong kong .
$date , they accounted for $number per cent of customer deposits and $number of loans extended by the hong kong banking sector .
mainland banks in hong kong are treated as foreign banks and are required to meet the licensing criteria applicable to all other foreign banking institutions seeking to enter the hong kong market .
in the mainland of china , hong kong banks are also regarded as foreign institutions and are treated the same as banks from other countries .
there is close supervisory cooperation between the hong kong monetary authority and the people 's bank of china in the banking area .
$number , with china 's support the hong kong monetary authority has been admitted into a number of important international central banking forums , including the bank for international settlements , executive meeting of east asia and pacific central banks ( or " emeap " ) and seanza , a forum comprising $number members from the asia pacific region .
in these forums , the hong kong monetary authority attends in its own right and along with the people 's bank of china .
the people 's bank of china has also entered into a bilateral repurchase agreement with the hong kong monetary authority which enhances the liquidity of foreign currency reserves in a manner helpful to the maintenance of currency stability .
$number , since $date last year , hong kong has introduced a real time gross settlement system for its interbank payment system , thereby reducing substantially the settlement risks in the financial markets .
this is one of the most advanced systems of the kind in the world .
in view of the growing economic and financial links between hong kong and mainland , the hong kong monetary authority and the people 's bank of china have agreed to link up the hk dollar payment system and the rmb payment system to provide a payment versus payment , or pvp , facility for foreign exchange transactions involving the two currencies .
we expect to be able to start the pvp link as soon as the people 's bank of china introduces real time gross settlement for its payment system $date .
a pvp link will substantially reduce settlement risk in foreign exchange transactions .
the link will be of strategic importance in view of the steady increase in transactions involving these two currencies .
$number , over the past four years hong kong has become the major funding centre for china .
$number chinese state - owned enterprises have made their initial public offerings in hong kong in the form of the issue of " h " shares . through their initial public offerings in hong kong , us $ $number has been raised locally while another us $ $number has been raised through global placements .
in raising funds in hong kong , mainland enterprises are required to abide by all the listing and other relevant laws and regulations in hong kong .
no favouritism or preferential treatment has been , or ever will be , granted to mainland companies . they will be subject to the same standards applied across the board in hong kong .
the listing of mainland companies in hong kong not only enables them to raise the much needed capital in foreign exchange but also facilitates the upgrading of the corporate governance of these listed companies in line with international standards .
this process is of great importance to the reform of state - owned enterprises in the mainland , and hong kong is proud to be playing a strategic role in the process .
through this process , the capitalisation of the hong kong securities market received a significant boost in terms of strength and variety of products .
hong kong will continue to be the centre for placement of ' h ' shares in the future - the centre of a rapidly enlarging and outward going chinese economy .
in order to have effective regulation on mainland companies listed in hong kong , the securities and futures commission of hong kong entered into a memorandum of regulatory cooperation with the china securities regulatory commission $date .
this was followed by another memorandum signed $date for the regulation of futures trading activities .
the two memoranda are similar to $number others signed by the securities & futures commission with regulatory authorities in the other markets .
but perhaps the best indicator of hong kong 's viability in the future should come from the market .
$number , the hong kong dollar remains stable under the linked exchange rate system , notwithstanding the recent turmoil of the asian currencies markets .
the stock market remains buoyant and prosperous after the handover , with hang seng index reaching record highs .
you may also be aware that hong kong is the only place in asia , outside japan , which has developed a highly liquid debt market through the exchange fund bills and notes programme administered by the hong kong monetary authority .
the programme now provides benchmarks for a maturity of up to $number years .
and the yield of $number - year exchange fund notes is only $number basis points above the yield of $number - year us treasuries at present .
it means that the market is confident in the future of hong kong and is not demanding any significant risk premium for debt securities issued by the hong kong sar government which are not due until the year $number .
furthermore , a number of credit rating agencies have accepted the view that hong kong should receive a separate , and higher , rating from that of china under the " one country , two systems " arrangements in view of the stronger economic fundamentals of hong kong .
this is a further demonstration of the financial market 's confidence on the " one country , two systems " arrangements .
the picture is rosy but we can never afford to be complacent .
indeed everyone of us in hong kong works very hard to maintain the dynamism and versatility of our economy . the financial sector is of course no exception .
indeed , our securities market is also developing quickly .
in keeping with our position as the leading asian centre for derivatives outside japan , new products such as regional derivative warrants and convertible bonds have recently been introduced by the stock exchange of hong kong and more are under consideration .
the hong kong futures exchange has also linked up with the philadelphia stock exchange and the new york mercantile exchange (nymex) to enable overseas currency options and futures contracts of petroleum and other commodities to be traded in hong kong during asian business hours .
given our advance financial market and close relationship with the mainland , hong kong has naturally become the most important capital - raising centre for mainland chinese enterprises .
apart from $number chinese state - owned enterprises which have been listed in hong kong , mainland enterprises also raise capital on our securities market through companies domiciled and listed in hong kong , commonly known as the " red - chips " . we expect our role in this respect to become more important as the mainland economy continues to develop and prosper .
separately , with the mandatory provident fund scheme soon to be introduced in hong kong , the size of retirement funds assets in our market is expected to grow from us $ $number to over $ $number .
this will generate strong demand for debt instruments of even larger issue sizes and longer term maturities and create abundant opportunities for the development of the primary and secondary debt markets in hong kong .
these are but a few examples of the financial market development in hong kong in the foreseeable future .
we are committed to ensure that the software and hardware of our financial infrastructure are enhanced and sustained at the world - class level to meet challenges in the coming century . conclusion - - - - - - - - - - what we have now in hong kong , ladies and gentlemen , is an innovation .
the concept of " one country , two currencies , two monetary systems , two monetary authorities , two securities systems , and two securities market supervisory authorities " is being put into practice .
the political uncertainties surrounding $number are behind us .
our economy is important to china as a whole .
with the rapid and steady growth in the economy of mainland china , hong kong as her premier international financial centre is likely to do much better in the years ahead in meeting the huge funding requirements of our motherland and in contributing to the modernisation of her financial systems .
perhaps the best way to appreciate how this concept works in practice is to come to hong kong to see it for yourselves .
so , it is with great pleasure that i extend an open invitation for you all to come to visit hong kong as soon as you can spare the time .
you will find that hong kong remains as interesting , vibrant , dynamic , profitable as ever .
go into mainland china as well and witness for yourselves the momentous market changes that are taking place .
also let us show you the way .
market confidence in the future under " one country , two systems " the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , today ( tuesday ) painted a rosy picture of hong kong 's financial market under the " one country , two systems " concept .
he said : " the hong kong dollar remains stable under the linked exchange rate system , notwithstanding the recent turmoil of the asian currencies markets .
the stock market remains buoyant and prosperous after the handover , with hang seng index reaching record highs . "
" but we can never afford to be complacent .
indeed everyone of us in hong kong works very hard to maintain the dynamism and versatility of our economy . the financial sector is of course no exception . "
speaking at a briefing organised by the australian securities institute in sydney on $number day of his official visit to australia , mr tsang gave a full account of the implementation of the innovative " one country , two systems " concept .
in unambiguous terms , mr tsang said that despite the importance of maintaining a mutually independent relationship between the hong kong sar and the mainland of china , one should not assume that hong kong 's continued prosperity emanates entirely from its own economic strength .
" indeed , hong kong 's geography , being at the heart of a high growth region and its proximity to , and as a part of , china , will continue to be the source of hong kong 's vitality , " he asserted .
while accounting for market confidence , mr tsang said hong kong was the only place in asia , outside japan , which had developed a highly liquid debt market through the exchange fund bills and notes programme administered by the hong kong monetary authority .
" the programme now provides benchmarks for a maturity of up to $number years .
and the yield of $number - year exchange fund notes is only $number basis points above the yield of $number - year us treasuries at present , " he said .
" it means that the market is confident in the future of hong kong and is not demanding any significant risk premium for debt securities issued by the hong kong sar government which are not due until the year $number . "
mr tsang also said a number of credit rating agencies had accepted the view that hong kong should receive a separate , and higher , rating from that of china under the " one country , two systems " arrangements in view of the stronger economic fundamentals of hong kong .
the financial secretary also spoke of hong kong 's role as the most important capital - raising centre for mainland chinese enterprises through listing in hong kong .
" we expect our role in this respect to become more important as the mainland economy continue to develop and prosper , " he said .
mr tsang expected the introduction of the mandatory provident fund scheme in the near future would boost the retirement funds assets in the market from us $ $number to over us $ $number .
" this will generate strong demand for debt instruments of even larger issue sizes and longer term maturities and create abundant opportunities for the development of the primary and secondary debt markets in hong kong , " he said .
noting that these were but a few examples of hong kong 's financial market development in the foreseeable future , he said the government was committed to ensure that the software and hardware of our financial infrastructure were enhanced and sustained at the world - class level to meet challenges in the coming century .
explaining the innovative concept of " one country , two systems " to his audience , mr tsang said it meant " one country , two currencies , two monetary systems , two monetary authorities , two securities systems and two securities market supervisory authorities " .
under the concept , he said the sar would formulate its own monetary and financial policies . the hong kong dollar would remain the only legal tender in the sar .
" in other words , even if the renminbi becomes fully convertible $date , it will not and cannot take the place of the hong kong dollar in accordance with the constitutional arrangements promulgated in the basic law , " he said .
" furthermore , no exchange control policy shall apply in hong kong . and the sar shall safeguard the free flow of capital .
at the moment , hong kong has something like $ $number us dollars in the bank , of which $ $number is held in foreign currency . this amount of money shall be managed by the sar government on its own .
the sar shall have independent finances and the central people 's government shall not levy taxes in the sar . "
mr tsang said to ensure the proper management of the two mutually independent monetary systems , it was essential that the two monetary authorities , the people 's bank of china in the mainland and the hong kong monetary authority in the hksar would remain separate and independent of each other .
on close links developed between the economies and financial markets of hong kong and mainland china , mr tsang cited several examples to demonstrate this rapidly evolving synergy .
" $number , in banking , the number of branches established by hong kong banks in the mainland has more than doubled in the past five years to $number .
meanwhile , $number mainland - owned banking institutions are operating in hong kong , " he said , noting that mainland banks in hong kong were treated as foreign banks while hong kong banks in the mainland of china were also regarded as foreign institutions .
" there is close supervisory co - operation between the hong kong monetary authority and the people 's bank of china in the banking area , " he added .
$number , with china 's support , mr tsang said the hong kong monetary authority had been admitted into a number of important international central banking forums , including the bank of international settlements , executive meeting of east asia and pacific central banks and seanza , a forum comprising $number members from the asia pacific region .
$number , in view of the growing economic and financial links between hong kong and the mainland , the hk monetary authority and the people 's bank of china have agreed to link up the hk dollar payment system and the rmb payment system to provide a payment versus payment facility for foreign exchange transactions involving the two currencies .
$number , mr tsang said hong kong had become the major funding centre for china over the past four years .
" $number chinese state - owned enterprises have made their initial public listings in hong kong in the form of h - shares . through their initial public offerings in hong kong , us $ $number has been raised locally while another us $ $number has been raised through global placements , " he said .
mr tsang said while raising funds in hong kong , mainland enterprises were required to abide by all the listing and other relevant laws and regulations in hong kong .
" no favouritism or preferential treatment has been , or ever will be , granted to mainland companies , " he stressed .
in conclusion , mr tsang said : " our economy is important to china as a whole .
with the rapid and steady growth in the economy of mainland china , hong kong as her premier international financial centre is likely to do much better in the years ahead in meeting the huge funding requirements of our motherland and in contributing to the modernisation of her financial system . "
mr tsang will leave sydney for canberra tomorrow .
government statement on celebrations by taiwanese organisations on $date in response to media enquiries on possible celebration activities to be organised by taiwanese organisations on $date , a government spokesman reiterated today ( tuesday ) that the sarg policy in this regard was clear . " $number , we must follow strictly the principle of ' one country ' ; and secondly , we must abide by the law .
we believe that people in hong kong will act responsibly and will not commit any act which seek to secede the country , " he said .
transport secretary visits kcrc the secretary for transport , mr nicholas ng , this ( tuesday ) afternoon called at the kowloon - canton railway corporation (kcrc) as part of his familiarisation visits to major public transport operators in hong kong .
at kcrc house in fo tan , sha tin , mr ng met with the kcrc chairman , mr k y yeung , and his directors and was briefed on the role played by the corporation in the government 's railway development strategy including the developments planned for the west rail , the east rail and the light rail .
the visit itinerary next took mr ng to a short trip on the east rail and the light rail to gain $number - hand information on their operations and the service improvement programmes recently completed for the two railway systems .
mr ng will continue his familiarisation visits to other major transport operators in the next few months .
external trade statistics by mode of transport in $number half $number the value of hong kong 's external trade by ocean accounted for $number of hong kong 's total value of external trade in $number half of $number , according to statistics released by the census and statistics department today ( tuesday ) .
another $number was transported by land , another $number by air and the remaining $number included shipment by river , postal parcels and accompanied goods of passengers travelling on various means of transport .
shipment by ocean amounted to $ $number in $number half of $number , representing an increase of $number over that in the same period $date .
shipment by land went up by $number to $ $number in $number half of $number while that by air rose by $number to $ $number .
the united states remained the largest destination for hong kong 's total exports ( comprising domestic exports and re - exports ) by ocean , accounting for a share of $number in value terms in $number half of $number .
the value of total exports by ocean to the united states went up by $number in $number half of $number over a year earlier .
comparing $number half of $number with the same period $date , increases were also recorded in the value of seaborne total exports to the mainland of china ( the mainland ) ( $number ) and the united kingdom ( $number ) .
however , the value of total exports by ocean to germany and japan decreased by $number and $number respectively .
japan was the largest supplier of hong kong 's imports by ocean , accounting for a share of $number in $number half of $number .
the value , however , decreased by $number over the same period $date .
the value of seaborne imports from taiwan and south korea also decreased , by $number and $number respectively in $number half of $number .
comparing $number half of $number with the same period $date , the value of seaborne imports from the mainland and the united states increased by $number and $number respectively .
in $number half of $number , the value of total exports by air to the united states accounted for $number of the value of hong kong 's total exports by air and increased by $number over the same period $date .
the value of total exports by air to taiwan , germany and japan also increased by $number , $number and $number respectively over the same period $date .
however , the value of airborne total exports to singapore decreased by $number .
in $number half of $number , increases were recorded in the value of imports by air from the main suppliers : the united kingdom ( $number ) , japan ( $number ) , taiwan ( $number ) , singapore ( $number ) and the united states ( $number ) .
comparing $number half of $number with the same period $date , increases were recorded in the value of re - exports by ocean for clothing ( by $ $number or $number ) ; miscellaneous manufactured articles consisting mainly of baby carriages , toys , games and sporting goods ( by $ $number or $number ) ; footwear ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and electrical machinery , apparatus and appliances , and electrical parts thereof ( by $ $number or $number ) .
however , a decrease was recorded in the value of re - exports by ocean for telecommunications and sound recording and reproducing apparatus and equipment ( by $ $number or $number ) .
the value of domestic exports by ocean for most of the principal commodity divisions fell in $number half of $number , with a more notable decrease for clothing ( by $ $number or $number ) .
however , a marginal increase was recorded in the value of domestic exports by ocean for office machines and automatic data processing machines ( by $ $number or $number ) .
over the same period , increases were recorded in the value of imports by ocean for road vehicles ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and electrical machinery , apparatus and appliances , and electrical parts thereof ( by $ $number or $number ) .
on the other hand , decreases were recorded in the value of imports by ocean for telecommunications , sound recording , reproducing apparatus and equipment ( by $ $number or $number ) ; plastics in primary forms ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and textiles ( by $ $number or $number ) .
comparing $number half of $number with the same period $date , increases were recorded in the value of re - exports by air for all the principal commodity divisions . more significant increases were recorded for office machines and automatic data processing machines ( by $ $number or $number ) ; as well as electrical machinery , apparatus and appliances , and electrical parts thereof ( by $ $number or $number ) .
an increase was recorded in the value of domestic exports by air for electrical machinery , apparatus and appliances , and electrical parts thereof ( by $ $number or $number ) .
however , significant decreases were recorded in the value of domestic exports by air for office machines and automatic data processing machines ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and clothing ( by $ $number or $number ) .
over the same period , more significant increases were recorded in the value of imports by air for telecommunications , sound recording , reproducing apparatus and equipment ( by $ $number or $number ) ; office machines and automatic data processing machines ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and electrical machinery , apparatus and appliances , and electrical parts thereof ( by $ $number or $number ) .
meanwhile , a decrease was recorded in the value of imports by air for photographic apparatus , equipment and supplies , optical goods , watches and clocks ( by $ $number or $number ) .
comparing $number half of $number with the same period $date , more notable increases were recorded in the value of re - exports by land for electrical machinery , apparatus and appliances , and electrical parts thereof ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and textiles ( by $ $number or $number ) .
however , decreases were recorded in the value of re - exports by land for telecommunications , sound recording and reproducing apparatus and equipment ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and plastics in primary forms ( by $ $number or $number ) .
a more notable increase was recorded in the value of domestic exports by land for clothing ( by $ $number or $number ) in $number half of $number .
however , decreases were recorded in the value of domestic exports by land for electrical machinery , apparatus and appliances , and electrical parts thereof ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and miscellaneous manufactured articles consisting mainly of baby carriages , toys , games and sporting goods ( by $ $number or $number ) .
over the same period , increases were recorded in the value of imports by land for clothing ( by $ $number or $number ) ; electrical machinery , apparatus and appliances , and electrical parts thereof ( by $ $number or $number ) ; miscellaneous manufactured articles consisting mainly of baby carriages , toys , games and sporting goods ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and footwear ( by $ $number or $number ) .
but a decrease was recorded in the value of imports by land for telecommunications , sound recording and reproducing apparatus and equipment ( by $ $number or $number ) .
detailed statistics of hong kong 's external trade analysed by mode of transport for $number half of $number are published in the $date issue of the " hong kong external trade " report which is now available for sale at $ $number per copy .
the report can be purchased at either (i) the government publications sales centre on the ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong , or (ii) the publications unit of the census and statistics department on the $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries regarding regular subscription to this report may be directed to the publications ( sales ) office of the information services department at $number floor , siu on centre , $number lockhart road , wanchai , hong kong ( tel no. $number $number ) and enquiries on trade statistics to the census and statistics department ( tel .
$number chinese vernacular architecture conference in hk the $number national conference on chinese vernacular architecture symbolises the beginning of a new era of modern architecture in hong kong , the secretary for works , mr kwong hon - sang , said today ( tuesday ) .
speaking at the opening ceremony of the three - day conference , $number of its kind held in hong kong , mr kwong said the conference would help enrich the architectural style of the new buildings here .
he said the conference , focusing on chinese traditional houses and modern architecture , had a three - fold meaning . " apart from symbolising a new era of modern architecture , the conference also symbolises the mutual participation and contribution of the chinese academics in architectural designs .
" through increasing communications among the participants , the architectural language will also be enriched .
" the conference also strenghthens the academic aspect of chinese traditional houses as the areas of researches conducted by participants have focused more on a higher academic level . also speaking at the ceremony , the director of architectural services , mr pau shiu - hung , said that his department had in the past years adopted traditional chinese designs in modern architecture .
citing the cultural museum in sha tin which is now under construction , and the graveyard for civil servants who died during duty as examples , he said the designs were based on traditional architectural concepts .
" there is also the antiquities group under the department which is responsible for the restoration and maintenance of antique buildings in the territory , " he noted .
the conference , held from today to $date ( friday ) , will provide a forum for renowned experts and academics from around the world to exchange views and experiences in the design and conservation of traditional houses and ancient buildings .
programme for the conference will include presentation of research papers , visits to historical buildings and photo displays .
the displays will be held at the deck floor of queensway government offices from tomorrow ( wednesday ) to next tuesday ( $date ) and the chinese university of hong kong from $date ( wednesday ) to $number ( friday ) .
the conference is organised jointly by the architectural services department and hku 's department of architecture .
local champion in world mathematics contest praised the home affairs department today ( tuesday ) held a ceremony to celebrate the success of the hong kong cultural and arts competitions delegation at $number primary mathematics world contest organised by po leung kuk .
the hong kong delegation won the championship by beating $number teams from $number major cities at the contest which was held between $date this year in hong kong .
speaking at the ceremony , acting director of home affairs , mr lui hau - tuen , praised the delegation for winning honour and greater positive publicity worldwide for hong kong students .
members of the delegation were selected from the outstanding participants of the hong kong primary mathematics contest held in $date this year .
it was one of the events of the hong kong cultural and arts competitions organised by po leung kuk with the sponsorship of home affairs department .
also attending the ceremony were chairman of the hong kong cultural and arts competitions , mr shum choi - sang , and acting chairman of po leung kuk , mr steven wong wing - shu .
members of the delegation , who were primary students , and their coaches were also present .
special gmb for route twisk residents the transport department today ( tuesday ) announces that a special green minibus (gmb) route 8 0 s has been provided for residents along route twisk .
the gmb route 8 0 s is operating between chuen lung tsuen and country park management centre at tsuen kam au at a $number - minute frequency from $number am to $number pm daily at a fare of $ $number per single journey .
the special gmb service caters for their travelling needs due to the urgent full closure of a section of route twisk to vehicular and pedestrian traffic caused by a landslide near the lookout .
the affected section is $number kilometres between lui kung tin and tai mo shan country park management centre at tsuen kam au . it is expected that safety measures to the slope will take some time to complete .
residents along route twisk can make use of the gmb services below to yuen long and tsuen wan : * gmb route $number operating between lui kung tin and yuen long from $number am to $number pm daily at $ $number ; and * gmb route $number operating between chuen lung tsuen and tsuen wan from $number am to $number pm daily at $ $number .
the department will continue monitoring residents ' needs and arrange for additional and strengthening public transport services if necessary .
$number ) bill $number and the dutiable commodities ( amendment ) ( no.2 ) bill $number in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : madam president , the inland revenue ( amendment ) ( no.
$number ) bill $number and the dutiable commodities ( amendment ) ( no.2 ) bill $number have passed through committee without amendments .
i move that these two bills be read $number time and do pass .
cssa unemployed recipients the following is a question by the hon tam yiu - chung and a reply by the secretary for health and welfare , mrs katherine fok , at the provisional legislative council meeting today ( wednesday ) : question : will the government inform this council of : (a) the number of persons who received assistance under the comprehensive social security assistance scheme on account of unemployment in each of the past three years , together with a breakdown of these persons by sex , age , job last held and family size ; and (b) the measures in place to assist unemployed persons in securing employment or encourage them to take up part - time work , so as to enable them to become employed again as early as possible and thereby increasing their income ?
reply : madam president , (a) according to the administrative records of the social welfare department , in the past three years the number of cases involving applicants who claimed 'unemployment ' to be the principal reason for their seeking assistance under the comprehensive social security assistance (cssa) scheme was as follows $number $number $number $number $number $number we do not have separate statistics on the number of 'unemployed ' persons involved in these cases .
nevertheless , according to a sample study of cssa recipients , the estimated profile of 'unemployed ' persons as at end $number , $number and $number is as follows $number $number $number (i) sex male $number $number $number female the remainder (ii) age $number $number $number $number $number the remainder ( iii ) family size ( eligible members per household ) $number - person $number $number $number $number or more the remainder persons (b) it is government policy to help unemployed persons , especially 'unemployed ' cssa recipients who have the ability to work , to join or rejoin the workforce .
various measures are built into the cssa scheme for the purpose - able - bodied adult aged between $number and $number are required to register with the labour department for employment assistance : these job seekers are offered priority in their registration with the local employment service .
they can either choose to use the self - help mode of employment service or join the job matching programme which provides in - depth interviews and counselling as well as job matching and placement services .
for disabled 'unemployed ' cssa recipients who wish to seek open employment , the selective placement division of the labour department provides specialised placement services .
in addition , cssa recipients are advised to join the wide range of courses offered by the employee retraining board (erb) , if it is considered useful in helping them find employment .
cssa recipients are offered priority in suitable courses to enhance their employability .
to provide further incentive , 'unemployed ' cssa recipients will have the retraining allowances that they may receive disregarded for the purpose of assessing their cssa entitlement .
all training bodies also provide placement services for retrainees .
we are considering further measures to motivate 'unemployed ' cssa recipients obtain employment .
this may take the form of an intensive and targetted approach to selected 'unemployed ' cssa recipients with a view to identifying their aptitude , skills , training / retraining needs and , with the support of counselling , job placement and retraining services , assisting them in rejoining the workforce and eventually getting off the welfare net .
mismatched blood transfusion the following is a question by the hon chan kam - lam and a reply by the secretary for health and welfare , mrs katherine fok , at the provisional legislative council meeting today ( wednesday ) : question : it was reported that another incident of mismatched blood transfusion occurred recently in a public hospital .
reply : madam president , (a) the incident of mismatched blood transfusion occurred on $date . a traffic accident victim in critical condition was admitted to queen mary hospital (qmh) for emergency treatment at $number p.m. on that day .
the patient was given a transfusion of five packets of blood in the a & e department .
at $time , he was sent to the intensive care unit for emergency treatment and was given another six packets of blood .
at $number a.m. on $date , the rescue team discovered that four packets of the wrong group of blood had been used for transfusion .
(b) upon the death of the patient at $time , the hospital briefed the patient 's family on the emergency treatment rendered , and the unfortunate incident of giving the deceased the wrong group of blood , and explained that the case would be submitted to the coroner for investigation .
on the other hand , the hospital management immediately launched a preliminary investigation into the circumstances leading to the mistake and reviewed the procedures for urgent blood transfusion in the hospital .
in response to media enquiry , the hospital authority (ha) confirmed on $date that a mismatched blood transfusion occurred in the course of emergency treatment .
two days later , ha announced the findings of the preliminary investigation and the new measures for improving the procedures for urgent blood transfusion in order to prevent a recurrence of similar incidents .
upon the release of the findings of the investigation , ha will initiate discussion of the issue of liability with the deceased 's family .
(c) upon completion of the preliminary investigation , the hospital management of qmh have implemented the following measures to improve the procedures for urgent blood transfusion : ( $number ) to remind staff to adhere to the established transfusion procedures and strengthen staff training in this respect ; and ( $number ) to store only group o blood in the intensive care unit for emergency use as it is universally - compatible for blood transfusions .
in addition , ha has set up a special review panel comprising medical experts to inquire into the incident in qmh and thoroughly review the professional standard of blood transfusion .
findings of the investigation will be announced to the public .
(d) ha has constantly reviewed the guidelines on blood transfusion procedures .
at the end of last year , ha established a working group to review in detail the entire blood transfusion process , including the procedures for the collection , testing , delivery and transfusion of blood .
the working group 's recommendations , including guidelines for improving blood transfusion procedures , have been communicated to all hospitals on $date for implementation .
ha will gain experience from this incident and will improve its services . the recommendations of the special review panel will be incorporated into the guidelines upon completion of the review .
(e) two other incidents of mismatched blood transfusion occurred in queen elizabeth hospital (qeh) $date and in ruttonjee hospital (rh) $date .
both incidents were thoroughly investigated by the hospital management .
it was found that both incidents were caused by human error .
a written warning was issued to a doctor and verbal warning to a nurse in qeh .
in the case of rh , a written warning was issued to a medical technologist who was also suspended from performing duties in the blood bank for three months .
reply : madam president , the " chevron markings " trial scheme was launched in $date on a section of the tolo highway to help drivers learn and maintain a safe distance from the vehicle in front .
transport department is conducting a study on the effectiveness of the trial scheme .
in the light of the outcome of the study , expected to be available next month , we will decide on the way ahead for the scheme .
drivers are advised in the road users ' code to keep a safe distance from the vehicle in front by using a simple " two - $number " rule .
additionally , there are on - going publicity activities to enhance drivers ' awareness in this respect .
such activities include road safety campaigns where road safety messages including keeping safe distance are disseminated .
this message was included in the $number road safety quarterly which is widely distributed to road users through concerned government departments , hong kong school of motoring , hong kong automobile association , and institute of advanced motorists .
transport department also made use of the electronic display board at the aberdeen tunnel toll plaza area to advise motorists of safety messages .
" keep your distance " was adopted as the message for display for three months $date and it will be displayed again soon for another three months .
we will continue to reinforce drivers ' awareness of the above message in future campaigns and publicity materials .
reply : madam president , (a) the number of illegal immigrants who were prosecuted and sentenced to prison terms for entering and taking up work in hong kong illegally $number ( jan - jul ) is as followsyear number $number $number $number $number $number ( jan - jul ) $number (b) the breakdown in respect of the $number ( as of $date ) illegal immigrants serving prison sentence for entering and taking up work in hong kong is as follows : (i) by nationality number mainland chinese $number vietnamese migrants $number (ii) by age number below $number $number aged $number and above $number ( iii ) by sentence number less than $number months $number $number months and $number (c) the proportion of the above category of prisoners to the total penal population is $number .
(d) the above prisoners below the age of $number are placed in young offender institutions .
facilities in the central library the following is a question by the hon hui yin - fat and a written reply by the acting secretary for broadcasting , culture and sport , mrs rita lau at the provisional legislative council meeting today ( wednesday ) : question : it is learnt that in its proposal to the provisional urban council to cut the construction costs of the central library , the architectural services department (asd) has suggested deleting two lifts specially for the use of the disabled .
reply : madam president , on the basis of the information provided by the urban services department , the answers to the hon. hui yin - fat 's question are as follows : (a) when preparing the architectural design of the central library , due consideration has been given to the needs of the physically handicapped , the visually and hearing impaired .
the facilities which will be installed in the central library to cater for their special needs include : $number . the library has four external and three internal lifts for public use .
another two are designated for staff use .
all nine lifts are equipped for use by the physically handicapped and the visually impaired . $number . to facilitate people with visual impairment to use the library facilities , all the lifts in the library will be provided with braille buttons and a cantonese - english pa system for the announcement of information concerning the direction of the lift , the floor number and the main facilities on the floor where the lift stops .
the braille system will also be adopted for all the signs and directional placards in the library .
to help people with low vision to identify floor locations , different colours will be used in carpet pattern and wall decoration for each floor .
as for books and audio - visual equipment , optacon and tv magnifier , among others , will be specially provided for people with low vision . $number .
in addition , special reading desks and computer tables are also provided on each floor for their use .
to make the library more accessible to the disabled , two parking spaces in the library carpark will be reserved for people with a disability .
( b / c / d ) the provision of two external lifts , one at the carpark and the other at the vicinity of the loading / unloading area , has been included in the original design of the central library . this aims at facilitating access by people with a disability , especially the wheelchair - bound who travel to the library by vehicle .
around $date and $date this year , the former urban council decided to provide two additional external lifts , one in the east and the other in the west wing of the library , to further improve accessibility for the public and people with a disability to the library .
the provision of these two lifts is not included in the original construction cost estimate . if the cost is to be reduced , one possible option is to delete this item .
however , the special meeting of the provisional urban council held on $date , councillors finally decided to keep the plan of providing two additional lifts .
(e) as mentioned above , the architectural services department has given full consideration to the disability discrimination ordinance when preparing the library design to ensure that it fully meets the relevant requirements and has not breached any legal provisions .
fs 's speech *** following is a speech by the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , at a dinner hosted by the committee for economic development in australia (ceda) , melbourne , australia today ( thursday ) : hong kong : looking towards the future - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - distinguished guests , committee members , ladies and gentlemen : i am very happy to have dinner with you tonight and to be given this opportunity to talk about the future of my home , hong kong .
i am also happy to be in the city which holds the world famous melbourne cup horse race each year because , believe it or not , this race actually helps a wide variety of charitable causes in hong kong .
as you know , hong kong people just love to gamble on the horses and when it is melbourne cup time , they descend in their thousands to our off - course betting centres and two race tracks to have a flutter .
as a result , the hong kong jockey club will eventually pay the government a betting duty on turnover for the day , and their annual profits are poured back into our community chest , which provides millions in funding for dozens of large and smaller charities in hong kong .
so no matter the result in melbourne , hong kong always comes out a winner !
i believe you would say it 's a good each - way bet .
i am certain many , if not all , of you saw something of the historic handover events which marked the establishment , on $date , of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china .
more than $number australians live in hong kong , and i 'm sure quite a few aussie tourists visited us during that period , so perhaps you even had friends or relatives who joined in the celebrations .
the events of $date marked a new chapter - - the beginning of a new era - - in hong kong 's history and this is what i would like to talk about today .
i hope that what i tell you today sheds some light on the realities of life in the hong kong sar and puts to rest some of the more negative or over - simplistic assessments of what the future holds for hong kong .
for many years now , people have been asking : " what 's going to happen $date ? "
my answer has always been the same : " not much will change . "
now , almost two months after the handover , the reality is as we predicted - there has been no big change .
indeed , i suspect many of the prophets of doom have been disappointed in what has transpired since the handover - - the economy has not collapsed , the civil service has not fallen apart , people have not been leaving in droves and the stock market has not crashed .
and these were some of the more optimistic predictions we had to live with during the transition period , from the time the sino - british joint declaration on the question of hong kong was signed in $date , until the handover itself on $date .
in fact , it has been very much business as usual .
nowadays in hong kong that means an economy growing at $number per cent per annum ; a corruption - free , highly - trained and dedicated civil service ; a net inflow of people ; and record highs on the stock market .
there has been one significant , historic , change and that , of course , is china 's resumption of the exercise of sovereignty over hong kong under the unique concept of ' one country , two systems ' .
the framework and implementation of this concept was devised by our late patriarch mr deng xiaoping and is very clearly spelt out in our basic law , hong kong 's mini - constitution since $date .
the basic law is a chinese national law . it is an extremely important document .
in any discussions about the future of hong kong you will always hear mention of it .
the basic law lays the foundations for the continued prosperity and stability of hong kong . it is our road map for the future .
it guarantees our way of life in hong kong for at least $number years . it gives us a high degree of autonomy to conduct our own political , economic , social and cultural affairs .
it clearly sets our capitalist system apart from the socialist system practised on our motherland .
i have great faith that the leaders of our country want to see the basic law implemented successfully and to see hong kong 's star continue to rise .
during the handover events our senior leaders , president jiang zemin , premier li peng and foreign minister qian qichen all made it very clear they were determined to see the ' one country , two systems ' concept successfully implemented .
it is , after all , a matter of considerable pride to our nation to ensure hong kong 's continued economic development and social stability .
it is also up to the people of hong kong themselves to stand up for their rights and freedoms as spelt out in the basic law . to do any less would be foolish , to say the least .
and in $number two months of life of the sar , hong kong people have been doing just that - - exercising their rights , as they should , of free speech , of demonstration , of scrutinising government policies and decisions .
we have an average some $number demonstrations a week , from human rights , labour issues , environment concerns , as usual .
the government is still being perfunctorily taken to court , on migrants issues , on legality of the legislature , as usual .
public pressure on the government to be open and responsive , to serve the community , is as great now as it was before $date .
this is all part of the fabric of hong kong . it is part of our way of life .
we are proud of it .
disparaging cartoons and articles on my boss , the chief executive , myself and other senior figures appear in our printed media everyday , as usual .
we have , as you may not know , some $number newspapers for a population of $number .
life in hong kong , is fun , as usual .
a recent report by the political and economic risk consultancy says hong kong 's political risk factor has actually dropped since the handover when compared to a year ago .
the report said , and i quote : " hong kong is still the region 's premier business centre . "
encouraging words may be , but actually not that surprising to those who really know what make hong kong tick .
the basic law embodies all of the ingredients which have made hong kong the success it is today .
these ingredients , which i often refer to as the four pillars of hong kong 's success , include : * the free flow of information , free speech and a free and open press ; * a level playing field for all who do business in hong kong ; * the rule of law upheld by an independent judiciary ; and * prudent fiscal policy and limiting the growth of public spending to within the growth of the economy .
so , while the basic law has only been in force for just under two months , the basic tenets it upholds have been part of the hong kong recipe for success for many , many years .
i mention these aspects to give you a picture of the solid foundations upon which hong kong has been built and will continue to be built .
let me stress , there has not been , and there will not be , a change in the basic philosophies which have served us so well for so many years .
now , let me turn towards the future , which i believe many in hong kong are looking at with a great deal of optimism .
it has often been said that the dawning of the new millennium will herald the beginning of the pacific century , when the pacific rim economies will come to the fore on the global stage .
i know that over the past decade , for example , the focus of australia 's trade efforts has turned more towards its asia - pacific neighbours where there is strong - sometimes double digit - economic growth and there is an emerging and more affluent middle class with more money to spend on your goods and services .
this can be seen in your own trade figures , which show that $number of australia 's top $number trading partners - - including new zealand - - are in the asia - pacific region , accounting for $number per cent of your total trade $date .
mainland china is australia 's $number largest trading partner . taiwan comes in at number seven ; while hong kong is at number $number .
these three " chinese markets " , if i can call them that , accounted for $number per cent of australia 's trade last year .
but it is not only you in australia who are pursuing these asian markets , which are expected to grow by an average of $number per cent per annum in the short to medium term .
so , too , are we in hong kong . in fact , $number of our top $number trading partners are in the asia - pacific region .
we have economic and trade offices in sydney , tokyo and singapore which give our companies direct links to those markets while at the same time helping overseas businesses to set up shop in hong kong and , indirectly , in mainland china .
we expect to open more such offices as other asian 'tiger ' economies begin to roar .
i have no doubt that hong kong - described by austrade as an economic tiger with " a globally significant , mature economy " - is well placed to become a pacific powerhouse , if indeed , it already has not .
there are several compelling reasons .
$number is undoubtedly hong kong 's long - standing and symbiotic relationship with mainland china .
this is especially significant now that hong kong has been reunified with the mainland .
in simple terms , hong kong will play an even greater role as china 's window on the world while more overseas and multi - national companies will use hong kong as a launch pad for their investment and trade drives into china .
since china opened its doors to the world $date there has been remarkable economic change and growth , unmatched by any other economies in recent history .
even in hong kong , it is sometimes hard to fathom the enormity of the chinese market .
and it is growing at the rate of $number per cent per annum in real terms , so it will get even huger .
and of course hong kong is well - placed to take advantage of this economic phenomenon .
we have a highly trained , hard - working and competent workforce . we have the skills , the management expertise , the knowledge , the language and the cultural and geographical links needed to do business in mainland china .
hong kong is the biggest external investor in mainland china by a long way , accounting for $number per cent of all external investments .
by the end of $number , hong kong companies had invested $number us dollars in mainland china .
chinese enterprises are $number largest external investors in hong kong and we expect them to edge their way towards the top of the list in the years to come .
i 'm sure many of you have also heard talk that shanghai will one day eclipse hong kong , that the chinese leadership will pay more attention to the ' paris of the east ' than to the ' pearl of the orient ' .
that shanghai will develop a role as a leading financial centre is beyond doubt . but the nature of shanghai 's role and that of hong kong are different and complementary .
in simple terms , we believe , as the mayor of shanghai has said , that the relationship is this : hong kong will take care of international business ; shanghai will take care of domestic business .
i could spend $time alone talking about the hong kong - shanghai relationship but i think it 's best that i finish on this point by stating that whatever transpires there will be plenty of business for us both .
there is no doubt about that .
my $number reason for confidence in the future is the nature of hong kong 's economy , now heavily geared towards services industries .
almost $number per cent of our gdp is related to service industries .
we are asia 's leading tourist destination ; we have the world 's busiest container port ; we are the world 's busiest airport for international air cargo ; we have the world 's $number largest stock market ; we are a regional communications hub .
we are one of the world 's leading financial centres , with $number banks or deposit taking companies - including $number of the world 's top $number - from $number countries based in hong kong .
i am sure many of you , at one stage or another in your life , have had something inside your home with the famous ' made in hong kong ' brand stuck on the back .
hopefully , you still have .
but because of the big change in the nature of our economy - especially the re - configuration of our manufacturing industry - you are now more than likely to have a product ' made by hong kong ' .
there has been some criticism that our economy relies too heavily on service industries , that we are overweighed in this sector .
on this point i have to strongly disagree .
the hong kong economy has evolved the way it has because that 's what the market wanted .
there is minimal - and i mean absolute minimal - government interference in the direction of economic development .
what the government does , and it does it well , is to provide the legal , administrative and infrastructural framework for the market to pursue its goals .
manufacturing is an excellent example .
the limited supply , and high cost , of land in hong kong , as well as higher labour overheads and a finite labour supply , has led many hong kong manufacturers to set up production plants in mainland china to complement their operations in hong kong .
we estimate that in adjoining guangdong province alone there are some $number people - that 's $number more than the entire hong kong workforce - employed by enterprises either wholly or partly owned by hong kong companies .
so now the toys , watches , electronics products and clothes are made in mainland china , transported to hong kong and then trans - shipped across the globe , using the banking and financial infrastrucutre based in hong kong .
re - exports now account for $number per cent of our total trade , compared to $number per cent $number years ago and only $number per cent $number years ago .
the hong kong economy has transformed itself from one which made things , to one which makes things happen . some critics have argued that the government should do more to retain the labour intensive operations of our manufacturers in hong kong .
but why should the government take such an approach when the market clearly does not want to keep those operations in hong kong ?
so , i see the hong kong economy evolving in much the same way as it has all along - with minimal government intervention and maximum private sector participation .
taking this a step further i see hong kong continuing to develop its role as the premier services centre in the asia - pacific region . we are not only perfectly placed to facilitate business in china and vice versa , but we are ideally located to become a bigger regional player by exporting our management and technical expertise and helping to facilitate the major infrastructural development of other asian countries through such things as syndicated loans and the raising and financing of joint - venture capital .
another reason that i see a bright future ahead for hong kong is because we approach the next century in extremely good financial shape .
we are actually obliged by the basic law to strive for fiscal balance and to limit public spending within the limits of gdp growth .
at the moment , hong kong has something like $ $number us dollars in the bank , of which some $ $number is held in foreign currency . and we have no debt .
that gives you an idea of the 'safety cushion ' we have built up over the years .
at the same time we continue to plan for , and build , the massive infrastructure needed to keep our economy competitive - without having to dip into reserves .
we have spent almost $number us dollars on our new airport and related developments , which include two of the world 's longest bridges , a dedicated express railway line , a new town which will ultimately house $number people , a new cross - harbour tunnel , $number - kilometres of six - lane expressways and major reclamation to provide new land for commercial development and housing .
all this , without involving the government in borrowing a cent from the public .
in fact , once we develop the reclaimed land and the new town we expect to recoup all of the costs and then make a handsome profit .
the new airport will be run by the airport authority , which will also be expected to pay the government a dividend on its operating profits after a certain period .
we are now embarking upon a major upgrade and expansion of our already excellent railway service , to relieve pressure on congested lines and to bring fast , cheap and efficient transport to those living in new urban areas .
the two railway corporations operating in hong kong are wholly - government - owned but run as separate businesses with their own staff .
they are not only required to provide excellent service to the public - they are also bound to pay the public purse a dividend on their operations .
our port - the busiest container port in the world - is built and run by private enterprise .
apart from some of the infrastructure which serves the port , such as roads , government spending on the port is kept to the absolute minimum .
however , the fiscal benefits the port brings by way of taxes paid by the port operators far outweigh any initial outlay on roads or parking spaces for container trucks .
our tax system is very simple and , we believe , very fair .
individuals pay a maximum of $number per cent , while corporations pay $number per cent on their profits .
for example , a single taxpayer will need to earn the equivalent of just $number australian dollars a year before paying tax at the full rate of $number per cent .
not surprisingly , the incidence of tax evasion is low .
one final - and perhaps the most important - reason i have every confidence in the future of hong kong is the $number people who call hong kong their home .
hong kong people have time and again demonstrated a 'can - do ' spirit and an entrepreneurial flair which has allowed them to build a better life for themselves and their families .
the will to succeed is something which has become a part of the hong kong psyche .
it has been borne out of a society where everyone is given an equal chance at success ; where a quality education is available to all who are willing to learn ; where good , old - fashioned hard work and determination are the norm , rather than the exception .
i am convinced that hong kong people will waste no time seizing the world of opportunities which will present themselves following the reunification of china and that hong kong will continue to develop its role not only as a pacific powerhouse , but also as a global economic player .
i am equally certain that hong kong will remain one of the most open , free , exciting and cosmopolitan cities on earth .
i believe in australia you would say : " she 'll be right , mate ! "
pacific rim economies to join global stage hong kong , an economic tiger with a globally significant , mature economy , is well placed to become a pacific powerhouse , the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , said today ( thursday ) .
addressing a dinner gathering in melbourne hosted by the committee for economic development in australia , mr tsang said that the dawning of the new millennium would herald the beginning of the pacific century when the pacific rim economies would come to the fore on the global stage .
" over the past decade , the focus of australia 's trade efforts has turned more towards its asia pacific neighbours where there is strong - sometimes double digit - economic growth and there is an emerging and more affluent middle class with more money to spend on goods and services , " mr tsang elaborated .
hong kong is moving in a similar path .
mr tsang noted that $number of our top $number trading partners were in the asia - pacific region .
in answer to the overseas community 's curiosity as regards what was happening to hong kong $date , mr tsang provided a most succinct answer .
he said , " now almost two months after the handover , the reality is as we predicted - there has been no big change . "
" in fact , it has been very much business as usual .
nowadays in hong kong that means an economy growing at $number per annum ; a corruption - free , highly - trained and dedicated civil service ; a net inflow of people ; and record highs on the stock market , " mr tsang added .
with hong kong reunified with the mainland , mr tsang said hong kong 's long - standing and symbiotic relationship with china was especially significant .
" hong kong will play an even greater role as china 's window on the world while more overseas and multi - national companies will use hong kong as a launch pad for their investment and trade drives into china . "
mr tsang noted that since china opened its doors to the world $date , there had been remarkable economic change and growth , unmatched by any other economies in recent history .
" even in hong kong , it is sometimes hard to fathom the enormity of the chinese market , " he said .
and it is growing at the rate of $number per annum in real terms , so it will get even huger . "
the financial secretary said hong kong was well placed to take advantage of this economic phenomenon .
" we have a highly trained , hard - working and competent workforce . we have the skills , the management expertise , the knowledge , the language and the cultural and geographical links needed to do business in mainland china , " he said .
" hong kong is the biggest external investor in mainland china by a long way , accounting for $number per cent of all external investments .
by the end of $number , hong kong companies had invested $number us dollars in mainland china .
" chinese enterprises are $number largest external investors in hong kong and we expect them to edge their way towards the top of the list in the years to come . "
commenting on the speculation that shanghai would one day eclipse hong kong , mr tsang said it was beyond doubt that shanghai would develop a role as a leading financial centre .
" but the nature of shanghai ' role and that of hong kong are different and complementary , " he said .
" in simple terms , we believe , as the mayor of shanghai has said , that the relationship is this : hong kong will take care of international business ; shanghai will take care of domestic business .
" whatever transpires there will be plenty of business for us both .
there is no doubt about that . "
turning to hong kong 's transformation into a service economy , mr tsang said the limited supply , and high cost , of land in hong kong as well as higher labour overheads and a finite labour supply , had led many hong kong manufacturers to set up production plants in mainland china to complement their operations in hong kong .
he estimated that in adjoining guangdong province alone , there were some $number people - $number more than the entire hong kong workforce - employed by enterprises either wholly or partly owned by hong kong companies .
" so , now the toys , watches , electronics products and cloths are made in mainland china , transport to hong kong and then trans - shipped across the globe , using the banking and financial infrastructure based in hong kong . , " he said , noting that re - exports now accounted for $number per cent of hong kong 's total trade , compared to $number per cent $number years ago and $number per cent $number years ago .
" we are not only perfectly placed to facilitate business in china and vice - versa , but we are ideally located to become a bigger regional player by exporting our management and technical expertise and helping to facilitate the major infrastructural development of other asian countries through such things as syndicated loans and the raising and financing of joint - venture capital , " mr tsang added . earlier today , the financial secretary called on the governor of victoria , the excellency the hon sir james gobbo , and the minister for industry , science and technology , the hon mark birrell .
secretary for justice attends the lawasia conference the secretary for justice , miss elsie leung , and the solicitor general , mr daniel fung , will depart for manila , philippines tomorrow ( friday ) to attend the $number lawasia biennial conference .
miss leung will deliver a keynote speech on " the legal system of the hong kong special administrative region " at the conference luncheon to be held on saturday ( $date ) .
the solicitor general will speak on " hong kong 's continuing commitment to the rule of law after the resumption of chinese sovereignty " at an educational session of the conference in the afternoon on the same day .
the $number lawasia biennial conference - " law in a changing asia " , is being held between $date and $date .
nine counsel from the department of justice also take part in the $number - day conference .
speculation about tax reductions groundless in response to recent media speculation that the chief executive will announce tax reductions in his policy address in $date , a government spokesman said today ( thursday ) that such speculation was completely groundless .
" as proposed by the financial secretary in his $number budget speech , we are conducting a comprehensive review of our profits tax system .
as part of that review , we have launched a consultation exercise which will end in early $date .
after the consultation exercise , we will analyse carefully the views and proposals received , " the spokesman said .
" also , in $number three weeks of $date , the financial secretary will be meeting the provisional legislative council members to solicit their views on the revenue side of the $number budget .
at the same time , we will listen to the views of professional / business organisations and the general public . "
" in parallel , we will have to look at the latest economic forecasts and our financial position .
while we would examine as a matter of course all revenue sources in the preparation of the annual budget , it would be pre - mature to make decisions on a piecemeal basis on the profits tax and salaries tax rates in early $date as the necessary consultations have yet to be completed and the essential economic and financial data are not yet available , " the spokesman added .
refund of tutorial course fees parents and students who have difficulties obtaining a refund of course fees from tutorial schools are reminded that they may complain to the consumer council .
the education department and the consumer council are keeping a close watch on the refund of course fees due to closure of the tutorial school or inability to provide the scheduled courses .
with the end of the summer holidays approaching , it is quite unlikely that the pending classes could be provided to students who have paid the course fees , and refunds will probably be a reasonable solution .
a spokesman for the education department said that the department and the consumer council will monitor complaints and where necessary , jointly meet the tutorial schools concerned to look into the problems .
the law concerning provision of services stipulates that consumers have a right to expect reasonable services within reasonable time .
government response on intake of medical students in response to a number of press enquiries on the intake of medical students at the two local universities , a spokesman for the government said today ( thursday ) : " the government does not propose to change at this stage the level of intake of medical students at the chinese university of hong kong and the university of hong kong for the $number academic year .
" we consider it more prudent to take a definitive view on the issue in the light of the outcome of the review which the health and welfare bureau is now conducting on the existing health care system .
" we believe that the review which is expected to be completed $date may provide more insights into the manpower requirements of health care personnel , including doctors , in the next decade . "
public consultation on building safety inspection launched the buildings department today ( thursday ) launched a two - month public consultation exercise on a proposal to enforce the building safety inspection scheme on a mandatory basis for private buildings $number years old .
the scheme imposes a legal responsibility on building owners to have their properties regularly inspected , maintained and repaired to ensure safety of occupants and the public .
the scheme will focus on three most common safety problems of older buildings , namely , structural stability , integrity of external wall finishes , and adequacy of fire escape .
under the proposed scheme , the building authority will issue statutory orders requiring building owners to appoint authorised persons or structural engineers to inspect their properties .
" there will be two levels of inspection , namely general appraisal and detailed investigation , " the director of buildings , dr choi yu - leuk , said .
" detailed investigation and repair works will be necessary only if recommended by building professionals after the general appraisal , and supported by the buildings department , " dr choi said .
he said that for a typical $number - storey residential building with $number units , the cost to individual households would be about $ $number over a seven year period , if both levels of inspection were required .
" repair costs may vary substantially depending on the nature and scope of works required , " he said .
dr choi stressed that proper maintenance of buildings was not only in the interest of public safety but could also enhance their value , to the benefit of owners .
the scheme will be implemented in phases with $number buildings being tackled each year eventually .
" we propose an inspection cycle of five , seven and $number years for industrial buildings and godown , domestic and composite buildings , and other non - domestic buildings respectively , " dr choi said .
the building authority will be empowered to declare buildings to be subject to mandatory inspection and to serve and enforce inspection orders .
the authority will also be empowered to impose penalties for non - compliance , make regulations on implementation and inspection standards , and cause inspections and essential repairs to be carried out in default of owners and to recover the costs and supervision charges .
" our department will play an active role during the whole process , from the setting of technical guidelines for inspections , assessment and repairs to the final vetting of the inspection reports prepared by the building professionals , " dr choi said .
" we will also issue letters of satisfaction to building owners upon completion of the inspection and any necessary repair works , " he said . " the letters , as proof of the safety condition of buildings and the discharge of their legal obligation under the scheme , can be registered with the land registry , " dr choi said .
the consultation document was circulated to all provisional legislative council members yesterday while professional bodies and advisory committees , including the land and building advisory committee , were consulted last month .
" in the next two months , we will consult the $number provisional district boards and members of the public , " dr choi said .
comments should reach the buildings department on or before $date at $number floor , pioneer centre , $number nathan road , mongkok , kowloon .
copies of the consultation document are available at all district offices .
noise mitigation measures for roadworks noise mitigation measures will be implemented in relation to a roadworks project in tsuen wan to prevent some $number premises from being exposed to noise levels exceeding the permissible limit .
the $ $number project includes the construction of a flyover across castle peak road to link up sha tsui road with tsuen king circuit to ease traffic congestion there and to provide an additional vehicular access to the area .
the project also includes the construction of a footbridge to replace the existing at - grade pedestrian crossing to provide a safe grade - separated crossing for pedestrians .
an environmental impact assessment (eia) study for the project completed $date concluded that some $number premises will be exposed to noise levels exceeding the noise limit laid down in the hong kong planning standards and guidelines unless mitigation measures are provided .
a government spokesman said today ( thursday ) that to mitigate the noise impact , direct technical remedies including low noise road surface , road covers and roadside noise barriers will be provided .
in addition , indirect technical remedies in the form of window insulation and air - conditioners for some $number affected premises including a kindergarten / church will also be provided .
for short term impacts during construction , nuisances such as noise , dust and site run - off will be controlled through implementation of mitigation measures in the works contract .
the traffic and transport committee of the tsuen wan district board has accepted in principle the proposed noise mitigation measures .
the advisory council on the environment has endorsed the eia report and the executive council has approved the indirect technical remedies .
residential mortgage survey results for $date new mortgage lending rose rapidly in $date according to the results of the latest monthly survey conducted by the hong kong monetary authority (hkma) .
gross new loans increased during the month by $number to $ $number .
the average size of new loans increased to $ $number compared with $ $number in $date .
repayment of loans also increased sharply by $number in $date but at a slower rate than loan growth . as a result , the amount of outstanding loans increased by $number to $ $number in $date , compared to $number growth in $date .
the annualized rate of growth of outstanding loans in the three months to $date increased to $number from $number in the three months to $date .
the average change over the last twelve months increased to $number in $date from $number in $date .
new loans approved during the month rose by $number to $ $number .
new loans approved but not yet drawn dropped slightly from the record high level of $ $number in $date to $ $number in $date .
the trend of price cutting continued in $date .
of new loans approved during $date , $number were priced at best lending rate , compared with $number in $date .
loans granted at $number above best lending rate dropped further to $number in $date from $number in $date .
" the rapid growth of mortgage lending in $date is a reflection of market conditions as they were in may and early $date " , said mr david carse , deputy chief executive of the hong kong monetary authority .
" the property market has since cooled and demand for new loans seems to have slowed in $date .
nevertheless , outstanding loans in $date may continue to grow quite rapidly because of loan approvals already in the pipeline .
in view of this , the recent move by some banks to increase their mortgage interest rates is prudent . "
gross loans for the purchase of properties in mainland china increased to $ $number in $date from $ $number in $date .
the amount of outstanding loans increased by $number to $ $number .
external trade figures for $date the value of hong kong 's re - exports and imports in $date increased over a year earlier while that of domestic exports registered a decline , according to the figures released today ( thursday ) by the census and statistics department .
the value of total exports ( comprising re - exports and domestic exports ) in $date increased by $number over a year earlier to $ $number .
among total exports , the value of re - exports increased by $number to $ $number , while the value of domestic exports decreased by $number to $ $number .
the value of imports increased by $number in $date over a year earlier to $ $number .
since the value of total exports in $date was smaller than that of total imports , a visible trade deficit of $ $number , equivalent to $number of the value of imports , was recorded . this was larger than the corresponding deficit of $ $number , equivalent to $number of the value of imports , in $date .
for $number seven months of $number , the value of total exports increased by $number over the same period last year .
among this , the value of re - exports rose by $number , while that of domestic exports decreased by $number .
the value of imports showed an increase of $number .
over the same period , a visible trade deficit of $ $number , equivalent to $number of the value of imports , was recorded . this was larger than the deficit of $ $number , equivalent to $number of the value of imports , recorded in the same period $date .
commenting on the latest trade statistics , a government secretariat spokesman today said that re - exports continued to register some growth in $date , notwithstanding a relatively high base of comparison in the same month last year .
" although the growth in re - exports in $date was slower than that in $date , it was still slightly faster than the average increase of $number in $number half of $number .
on the other hand , domestic exports fell in $date , following a $number increase in $date .
" yet the decline in $date was smaller than the average decrease of $number recorded in $number half of this year , " he said , adding that retained imports continued to rise in $date for $number consecutive month , underpinned by the sustained strength of domestic demand .
meanwhile , a more detailed analysis of hong kong 's external trade for $date , by commodity and country , will be released in mid - $date .
joint operation to flush out illegal immigrants a territory - wide operation against illegal immigration jointly mounted by the police , immigration department and labour department has resulted in the arrests of $number people .
the operation is part of the government 's continuous effort to flush out illegal immigrants .
the $number suspected illegal immigrants arrested by the police have been referred to the immigration department . those found to be illegal immigrants will be repatriated .
a government spokesman reiterated today ( thursday ) that there was no question of any amnesty for illegal immigrants .
" our latest operation should drive home the point that there will be no change to this policy . anyone foolish enough to believe otherwise is only cheating oneself , " he said .
the spokesman stressed that apart from continuous checks throughout the territory , there was no let - up in anti - illegal immigration efforts at the border .
" a high state of vigilance will continue to be maintained by the police and the security forces both at the land and sea borders , " he said .
during the $number - hour operation ended at $number am yesterday ( wednesday ) , the police stepped up their identification spot checks in public places and carried out checks at suspicious locations throughout the territory .
as a result , a total of $number persons , $number vehicles and $number vessels were stopped for identification checks .
during the operation , immigration investigators visited a total of $number residential addresses and business establishments . $number men and $number women were arrested for suspected breaching of immigration offences .
among the arrestees , six filipino domestic helpers , five two - way permit holders and one prc passport holder were arrested for overstay while three imported workers were found breaching the condition of stay . one filipino domestic helper was arrested for making false representation .
four local residents were caught for aiding and abetting overstay while four local employers were caught for aiding and abetting the breach of condition of stay or being an employer of a person who is not lawfully employable .
on the labour front , inspectors of the labour department visited $number establishments to weed out any illegal immigrants who may be working there and to check that employers fulfil their legal obligation of keeping proper records of their employees .
a total of $number employees had their proof of identity inspected .
four establishments were found not able to provide a record of employees for inspection .
the spokesman reminded employers that they could be fined up to $ $number and jailed for up to three years if they were found to be employing illegal immigrants .
best metrication ambassador team awarded $number youngsters will be presented with certificates of appointment as metrication ambassadors at a ceremony in the government secretariat conference hall , $number floor , new annex to central government offices , at $number pm tomorrow ( friday ) .
the metrication ambassadors from various schools and district organisations volunteered to man the metric scale demonstration counter at $number food expo held at the hong kong convention and exhibition centre from $date to $number .
the ten participating teams of ambassadors have shown their courtesy and co - operation in the food expo . they have assisted in distributing leaflets and souvenirs to visitors , answering enquiries on metrication , measuring the height and weight for visitors , and running the programmes on the stage .
they have also designed interesting games to promote the theme : " go metric . follow the international trend " , which have added a lot of fun to the event .
they will be presented the certificates so that they can continue to help promote a better understanding of the metrication system for the coming year .
for $number time this year , the metrication committee has also organised the best metrication ambassador team competition to stimulate youngsters ' interest in promoting metrication through counter games .
the champion team is from sheng kung hui lam woo memorial secondary school which will receive a book coupon of $ $number . $number runner - up and $number runner - up go to the cotton spinners association prevocational school and central junior police call , and they will have the book coupons of $ $number and $ $number respectively .
fs concludes his australia visit the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , just finished with his last leg of official visit to melbourne , australia .
he met with the hon jeff kennett , premier of victoria , and the hon alan stockdale , treasurer and minister for multimedia today ( friday ) .
in the evening he attended a boardroom dinner hosted by the australasia centre of the asia society , where he met a large group of corporate ceos .
concluding his $number official visit to australia , the financial secretary said : " i came with the mission of offering a $number - hand update for the australian business and community leaders and senior government officials about the situation of hong kong after $date .
" i had frank discussions with interlocutors here and had impressed upon them the 'business as usual ' sentiment in hong kong .
judging from the reaction i got , i think i had reinforced australian investors ' confidence in hong kong , " mr tsang said .
mr tsang also said he had useful discussions with the minister for multimedia and other relevant government officials on the development of information technology .
" there are many lessons for hong kong to learn from the development of information technology and multimedia capabilities in australia . i am hoping that hong kong will be able to tap on australia 's expertise in this area , " mr tsang said .
earlier in the week , the financial secretary visited sydney and canberra .
apart from the deputy prime minister , he had also met with key government officials responsible for finance and trade matters .
mr tsang will be back in hong kong on sunday ( $date ) night .
government committed to improving fire safety the chief executive has thanked the hon mr justice woo and his team for their work in conducting the inquiry and compiling the final report of the commission of inquiry into the garley building fire , an sar government spokesman said today ( friday ) .
mr justice woo met the chief executive this morning on the commission 's final report .
" the report gives an extensive list of recommendations on measures to improve fire safety . the chief executive has expressed concern about the findings of the report , " the spokesman said .
the government attaches great importance to fire safety , which is a matter of great community concern . the recommendations are being considered carefully by relevant departments .
" we will consider how these recommendations will reinforce the package of measures we have taken to improve fire safety and to raise the community 's consciousness of fire risk , " the spokesman said .
" since the garley building fire , efforts have been made by introducing both legislative and administrative measures to improve fire safety , " the spokesman stressed , adding that these measures were being co - ordinated by an inter - departmental working group chaired by the security bureau , " he said .
during the last few months , the government has embarked on a series of measures to upgrade fire safety of old commercial buildings and to raise the community 's consciousness of fire risk .
as regards legislative measures , the government is planning to extend the application of the fire safety ( commercial premises ) ordinance to old commercial buildings to upgrade the fire installations ( fsis ) and equipment , means of escape (moe) , means of access (moa) and fire resisting construction (frc) of these buildings .
" based on the existing requirements in the ordinance for prescribed commercial premises , old commercial buildings will be required to provide additional fsis and equipment and to improve their moe , moa and frc , " the spokesman said .
" the enforcement authority may issue directions to require responsible persons to improve fire safety measures with reference to the authority 's codes of practice . drafting of legislation is in progress , " he said .
as regards administrative measures , a working group comprising the works bureau , fire services department , buildings department , labour department , electrical and mechanical services department and representatives from two lift and escalator contractor associations , has drawn up recommendations and taken follow - up actions on enhancing fire safety in lift maintenance and replacement works .
as for the community 's consciousness , a community relations unit which has a role in planning , developing and co - ordinating community involvement programmes , has been formed in the fire services department to strengthen community education and relations in fire safety .
in addition , the fire services department is running a " fire safety ambassadors " scheme in which the ambassadors will act as front line fire safety watchers and help disseminate fire safety messages to the public .
fire safety will also be included as a major publicity campaign $date / $number to sustain the government 's momentum to raise the public consciousness of fire risk .
" the inter - departmental working group will continue to co - ordinate follow - up actions arising from the final report of the commission of inquiry into the garley building fire , " the spokesman added .
pilot scheme to expedite the issue of occupation permits the works bureau will from next month ( $date ) conduct a six - month pilot scheme to help private developers speed up the building construction time with a view to expediting the issue of occupation permits of residential flats .
a bureau spokesman said today ( friday ) that starting from next monday ( $date ) , developers of development projects on hong kong island might choose to employ approved contractors to carry out any combination or all of the following public works outside their lot boundaries in connection with the development : i ) connection to the public drainage / sewage system , ii ) construction of run - ins and repair of damaged footpaths , and iii ) provision of water supply connection .
at present , drainage connections from the private developments to the public drainage / sewage system are undertaken by the drainage services department at the cost of developers .
similarly , water supply connections from the government water mains are carried out by the water supplies department at the developers ' cost .
moreover , it is quite common that a private developer may need to construct a new run - in to its development or to re - construct the adjoining footway and the necessary run - in damaged by the building activities .
the current practice is for the highways department to carry out such construction works to be paid for by the developer .
the spokesman said the new scheme would lead to a saving in the construction time as a result of better control of the works and improvement in the co - ordination and programming of property development .
the property development industry estimates that the issue of occupation permits could be advanced by up to two months as a result of this new flexible approach .
to exercise this option , developers represented by their authorised persons , will be responsible for carrying out the feasibility study , the application for excavation permits , co - ordination with the relevant government departments and utility companies and supervision of the site works in accordance with the stipulated standard .
upon completion , the relevant departments will conduct a technical audit to ensure the quality of works meets the standards and requirements of the government .
at the end of the six - month trial period in $date , the scheme will be reviewed before deciding whether full implementation territory - wide should be proceeded .
authorised persons and registered structural engineers as well as the real estate developers ' association have been consulted and are supportive of the pilot scheme .
the works bureau has written to $number individuals / organisations last week about the pilot scheme .
phase i of measles vaccination campaign ends next week $number phase of the special measles vaccination campaign targeted at teenagers between $number and $number would end on $date .
the department of health urged people in this age group who had not received $number dose measles vaccine to do so in the next week .
a spokesman for the department said : " so far the campaign has been running smoothly and orderly since it was launched in $date .
" to date , $number young people have already received the measles vaccination , representing $number per cent of the eligible target population in this age group . "
he pointed out that the next phase of the campaign targeted at children aged one to $number would begin on $date .
there would be two separate arrangements for children aged one to five and primary school children aged six to $number .
children aged one to five who had not received the measles vaccine before or who had received only one dose of the vaccine should come forward for vaccination between $date and $date .
vaccination would be given free of charge at the department 's $number general out - patient clinics (gopc) and $number maternal and child health centres (mchc) .
appointment discs for vaccination are now available .
for persons aged six to $number or those studying in primary schools , vaccination would be given at their schools by inoculation teams from dh between $date and $date this year .
alternatively , members of the public might also obtain vaccination from their private doctors at their own expense .
for enquiries , members of the public can call the special hotline on measles on tel . no : $number $number .
employer of visitors jailed nine months a supervisor of a vehicle demolition company received a nine - month imprisonment sentence at western magistracy for employing nine pakistan and chinese visitors , an immigration department spokesperson said today ( friday ) .
the $number - year - old defendant pleaded guilty on $date to nine charges of being the employer of a person not lawfully employable .
he was sentenced to nine months imprisonment on each charge , to be run concurrently .
among the eight , a $number - year - old pakistan defendant also pleaded guilty to a count of using a false travel document .
the chinese visitor received a one - month imprisonment sentence , suspended for $number months .
immigration officers conducted an anti - illegal worker operation at fung kutt heung , yuen long last friday ( $date ) . they found the nine visitors moving motorcycles spare parts inside the engineer company .
the supervisor and the nine were arrested for further enquiry .
subsequent investigation showed that the eight pakistan visitors came to hong kong between $date .
they had overstayed for one month to $number months .
the chinese visitors , a nephew of the supervisor , arrived hong kong in $date for sightseeing . he was allowed to stay until $date .
the eight pakistan defendants all admitted that they were aware of their visitor status and were not allowed to work in hong kong .
they approached the supervisor to work as causal workers for a daily wage from $ $number to $ $number and another $ $number for them to share .
the chinese visitor got $ $number as reward .
the supervisor admitted that even knowing the nine were visitors to hong kong , he still recruited them to work at the demolition company .
he employed them without inspecting their proves of identity .
the immigration spokesperson warned that it is an offence for anyone to employ someone who is not lawfully employable . the maximum penalty is a fine of $ $number and to imprisonment for three years . " visitors are not allowed to take up employment in hong kong , whether paid or unpaid , without the permission of the director of immigration , " said the spokesperson .
" those who breach the conditions of stay are liable to prosecution and upon conviction to a maximum fine of $ $number and to imprisonment for two years , " added the spokesperson .
airport core programme achievement enhanced hk 's image the professionalism and capability demonstrated in the airport core programme (acp) had enhanced hong kong 's image as a service centre for infrastructure projects in the asia - pacific region , chairman of the finance committee of the provisional legislative council , mr ronald arculli , said today ( friday ) .
in his speech at the opening ceremony of the lantau link visitors centre delivered by his provisional legislative council colleague mrs miriam lau in his absence , mr arculli said the success in the acp - completion of eight of the $number acp projects all on schedule and within budget - had made hong kong well acclaimed for its capability in cost control and project management of great infrastructure development .
" many overseas organisations , government , business , trade , professional and academic alike , have visited us and made enquiries with a view to sharing our experience in building and managing mega projects .
" i am sure our expertise acquired through the acp will ensure us a fair share in the us $ $number infrastructure development cake in the asia - pacific region in the next $number years , " mr arculli said .
he noted that the overall costs of the acp had been reduced twice , from the original $ $number to $ $number in $date , and then to $ $number in $date .
" as chairman of the finance committee of the provisional legislative council , and as a legislator who has been involved in the acp since its inception $date , " mr arculli said , " i would like to offer my hearty congratulations to those involved for doing so well in cost control . "
" as the acp is now entering its final stage , i look forward to your sustaining the excellent record in the past years and completing the remaining two projects , the new airport and the airport railway , on time and within budget , " he said .
speaking on the same occasion , secretary for works mr kwong hon - sang said the visitors centre served to pay tribute to all who had been involved in the planning and construction of the lantau link - architects , engineers , consultants , contractors , workers and government officers .
" it also provides the public with a vantage point to look at the remarkable landmark of hong kong for generations to come , " he said .
the lantau link visitors centre is set up by the new airport projects co - ordination office (napco) , which has also provided the adjacent viewing platform at north west tsing yi interchange and the acp exhibition centre at ting kau .
director of napco , mr billy lam , said that together with the viewing platform , the centre would allow the general public a good appreciation of not only the beauty of the lantau link , but also the tremendous challenges in its construction and maintenance .
there are car parking facilities at the visitors centre . the public can also go there using bus services .
on display at the centre are models and photographs as well as samples of materials , such as cables and bolts , used in the construction of the bridges .
two computer games will test visitors ' knowledge of the lantau link .
outside the centre is a section of the main suspension cable of tsing ma bridge .
the centre is open to the public from $number am to $number pm from monday to friday , and from $number am to $number pm on saturday , sunday and public holidays .
it is closed on wednesday , except when it is a public holiday .
the centre will also be closed during the christmas holidays , new year 's day and the lunar new year holidays .
admission is free .
the viewing platform is open throughout the year from $number am to $number pm from sunday to friday , and from $number am to $number am the following day on saturday and public holidays .
a bus route 2 4 3 r running from lai chi kok mtr station to the centre operates from $number am to $number pm from monday to friday , and from $number am to $number pm on saturday , sunday and public holidays .
enquiries about the centre can be made at $number $number .
technical memorandum for supervision plans a technical memorandum prescribing details in respect of supervision plans required to be lodged with the building authority (ba) under the buildings ordinance is gazetted today ( friday ) .
a government spokesman said that to tighten controls over the safety of building works and street works , building professionals would be required to lodge supervision plans with the ba before they could commence such works .
" the move is to minimize hazards from building works and street works , thereby reducing the risk to the workers on site , persons around the sites and adjoining buildings , structures and land , " the spokesman said .
building works include construction , site formation , ground investigation , foundation , demolition , alteration and addition works , whereas street works include the construction , formation or laying out of any private street or access road .
" the detailed criteria and means of determining the classes to which particular building works or street works belong will be stipulated in a code of practice to be issued later this year . the building industry will be consulted in drawing up the code , " the spokesman said .
authorised persons , registered structural engineers and registered contractors will be subject to disciplinary actions which include a maximum fine of $ $number if (a) they have drawn up supervision plans that do not comply with the material requirements of the ordinance ; (b) they have repeatedly drawn up supervision plans that do not comply with the requirements of the ordinance ; or (c) they have permitted material deviations / deviated in a material manner from the supervision plans without reasonable causes .
the spokesman said the viability of the construction industry would not be adversely affected by the requirements of the technical memorandum as better safety standards at construction sites resulting from the proposals would benefit both the general public and construction workers by reducing the number of accidents and the number of working days lost .
the land and building advisory committee , and its building sub - committee , the authorised persons and registered structural engineer committee , the hong kong construction association and the real estate developers association have been consulted over the technical memorandum and their views have been taken into account when it was finalised .
the technical memorandum will be tabled in the provisional legislative council on $date . it is expected to come into operation by the end of the year on a date to be appointed by the secretary for planning , environment and lands .
parking demand and supply in response to media enquiries on the consumer council 's report on car parking in private residential developments , a spokesman for the transport department said that the figures relating to supply and demand for domestic car parking spaces as quoted in the report are taken from the department 's $number parking demand study and relate to the situation which existed in $date .
since completion of the study , an inter - departmental working group chaired by the deputy secretary for transport has been co - ordinating and monitoring the implementation of measures recommended therein .
" according to a more recent assessment based on the situation as at $date , the supply and demand of domestic car parking spaces has increased to $number and $number respectively , " the spokesman said .
" therefore , on a territory wide basis the supply and demand of domestic car parking spaces is more or less balanced .
" nevertheless we acknowledge that shortfalls still exist in certain districts particularly the eastern district , yuen long and yau tsim mong .
to address the shortfall in such areas , the hong kong planning standards and guidelines has been revised to introduce a range of parking provision for residential developments .
" regarding the recommendations in the consumer council 's report , the department welcomes the suggestions made to address consumer concern . "
in relation to paragraph $number of the report , the spokesman stressed that government has not imposed any restraints on the provision of car parking spaces $date .
works to improve water supply system in nt the water supplies department will carry out a number of construction works in the new territories later this year to improve the water supply system .
$number project , due to start in $date , is to build stage ii of the tan kwai tsuen fresh water service reservoir to improve water supply from northern tuen mun to yuen long .
the reservoir will have a capacity of $number cubic metres .
works will also include laying associated watermains and drainage pipes .
upon completion of this stage in $number months , the service reservoir will be capable of meeting the total daily demand for $number cubic metres from areas stretching from northern tuen mun to yuen long beyond $number .
meanwhile , the department will build a header tank in chuen lung , tsuen wan , to provide fresh water supply to some $number local villagers .
at present , villagers have to rely on stream water or well water to meet their need .
the department will also lay $number kilometres of fresh water mains in wo yi hop and chuen lung with diameters ranging $number millimetres .
the project will begin in $date and complete in a year .
it forms part of the wo yi hop phase i programme to improve fresh water supply for residents of the wo yi hop village extension area .
consultancy study to speed up tung chung development the territory development department (tdd) today ( friday ) commissioned a consultancy study on the feasibility of speeding up the development of tung chung and tai ho in north lantau .
" as part of the government 's effort to increase land production to boost housing supply , we intend to speed up the development by redefining the remaining three phases into two phases , " a tdd spokesman said .
" phase $number is one of the ten airport core programme projects and is largely completed while phase $number is in progress for completion $date , " the spokesman said .
" these two phases will provide homes for $number , " he added .
" to meet medium and long - term housing demand , there is a need to redefine the remaining development in two phases instead of three , " he said .
" the original target population of $number will be increased to $number upon completion of phase $number $date , and $number upon completion of phase $number $date , " he added .
" the consultants have been asked to make recommendations on the scope of these two phases of developments in order to meet the revised population targets " , the spokesman said .
the study will cover such areas as planning , engineering , environment , transport and traffic , drainage and geology .
it will also look into the feasibility of a cable car route running from tung chung to ngong ping for tourists .
an agreement on the consultancy study was signed today between project manager / hong kong island and islands of the tdd , mr cheung tai - yan , and representatives of the mott connell ltd .
a roving exhibition on std awareness a roving exhibition will be held from today ( friday ) to $date to arouse public awareness of sexually transmitted diseases ( stds ) .
the exhibition is organised by the department of health 's social hygiene service (shs) , which is tasked with the prevention , control and treatment of stds in the territory .
in $number quarter of $number , the service treated $number std cases , representing an increase of $number per cent when compared with $number cases in the same period last year .
the majority of std patients are young , with $number per cent of them aged between $number and $number . the male - to - female ratio was $number .
among all the std cases diagnosed , the greatest increase was in primary syphilis , although it accounted for only a small percentage of all cases recorded .
$number cases of primary syphilis were diagnosed in this quarter , compared to $number cases in the same period last year .
the exhibition will be held in all social hygiene clinics and the red ribbon centre , as well as in the following housing estates : lei tung estate ( $date ) , oi man estate ( $date ) , tai wo estate ( $date ) and cheung fat estate ( $date ) .
new posters and publicity cards are produced and distributed to drive home the message proper use of quality condom and avoidance of multiple sex partners are the most important methods of preventing std .
information concerning stds can also be obtained at the following hotlines : aids hotline $number $number and dr sex hotline $number $number .
these reports are bilingual publications in english and chinese . they contain a wide range of statistics on the structural and operating characteristics of various economic activities for the reference year $number , based on data collected from establishments engaged in those activities .
examples of statistical items included in the reports are : * number of establishments , number of persons engaged ; * compensation of employees ; * gross output , sales of goods , business receipts and other income ; * value added ( a measure of contribution to gross domestic product ) ; * purchases of goods and materials ; * other operating expenses ; and * gross additions to fixed assets .
apart from statistics relating to the year $number , the reports also contain summary statistics for the year $number and $number to facilitate comparison in recent years .
the statistics contained in the reports are useful to both the government and the private sector in formulating policies and making decisions .
copies of the reports may be purchased at the government publications centre of the information services department , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong ; and the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
monetary statistics for $date according to statistics published today ( friday ) by the hong kong monetary authority , the growth of deposits and loans and advances both moderated during $date .
deposits the rise of total deposits slowed to $number in $date , from $number in $date .
the increase was mainly contributed by a $number rise in hk dollar deposits , which more than compensated for a fall of $number in foreign currency deposits .
during the month , hk dollar demand deposits surged by $number , after declining by $number in $date , while time deposits continued to grow by $number , having increased by $number in the previous month .
on the other hand , savings deposits declined by $number , following a rise of $number in the previous month .
the rise in time deposits was partly due to the offering of higher deposit rates by banks to attract hong kong dollar funds in response to higher interbank rates .
us dollar foreign currency deposits rose by a modest $number in $date , after decreasing by $number in the previous month , while non - us dollar foreign currency deposits declined markedly by $number , following a fall of $number in $date .
the fall of non - us dollar foreign currency deposits was largely due to the valuation effect stemming from a stronger us dollar , to which the hong kong dollar is linked .
loans and advances total loans and advances fell by $number in $date , having increased by $number in $date .
domestic credit expansion slowed for four months in a row to $number in $date , as both loans for trade financing and other local loans grew more moderately in the month .
meanwhile , offshore loans fell by $number , having increased by $number in the previous month .
analysed by currency , hk dollar loans were up by $number in $date while foreign currency loans decreased by $number .
as the expansion of hk dollar loans was marginally faster than that of hk dollar deposits , the hk dollar loan - to - deposit ratio edged up from $number at end - $date to $number at end - $date .
money supply hk $ m1 picked up by $number in $date , as the increase in hk dollar demand deposits more than offset the $number fall in currency held by the public .
hk $ m2 and hk $ m3 expanded by $number during the month .
compared to a year earlier , hk $ m1 , hk $ m2 and hk $ m3 rose by $number , $number and $number respectively .
special stamps on $number world bank / imf annual meetings the acting postmaster general , mr p c luk , announced today ( friday ) that a set of special stamps on the theme of $number world bank group / international monetary fund (imf) annual meetings will be issued on $date ( sunday ) .
the set of stamps commemorates the $number annual meetings of the boards of governors of the world bank group and the imf held in hong kong from $date to $number .
the stamps depict some of the services which help hong kong maintain its role as an international financial and service centre in asia . the set includes a $ $number stamp ( finance and banking ) , a $ $number stamp ( investment and stock exchange ) , a $ $number stamp ( trade and telecommunications ) and a $ $number stamp ( infrastructure and transport ) .
" this set of stamps is printed in lithography stochastic , a new printing method which produces sharper images and is $number time used on hong kong stamps , " mr luk said . " a new pane layout of $number stamps , each without gutter will also be introduced .
the stamps are designed by mr colin tillyer and printed by ashton - potter ( canada ) ltd . , " he added .
starting from tomorrow ( saturday ) , the stamps will be on display for advance information of the public at the general post office , tsim sha tsui post office , tsuen wan post office and sha tin central post office .
official $number day covers will also be put on sale at all post offices at $ $number each as from the same day .
advance orders for mint stamps , serviced $number day covers and presentation packs will be accepted at all post offices from tomorrow to $date ( friday ) .
" there is no limit on the order quantity but the minimum is five sets of stamps or five serviced $number day covers . the order will be available for customers ' collection as from $date at the post office where the order is placed , " mr luk said .
meanwhile , a beautifully designed presentation pack containing the four stamps will be available for sale at $ $number each at all post offices as from $date .
it can also be ordered through the advance order service .
a restriction of ten sheets of stamps of each denomination ( $number sets of stamps ) and two presentation packs per customer queuing will be imposed on $number day of issue on $date and on subsequent days while stocks last .
mr luk pointed out that on $number day of issue , hand - back service would be provided at all post offices to official and privately - made covers bearing indication of $number day of issue on $date .
" a special postmark will also be introduced .
a gpo-1 hand stamp will be available for hand - back service at all $number philatelic offices . "
all post offices will be opened on $date from $number am to $number pm . however , counter services provided will be restricted to sale of the new stamps and acceptance of registered mails .
at the same time , the public hall of the philatelic bureau on $number floor , $number cheung sha wan road will be opened for datestamping covers with the ' junk ' pictorial postmark from $number am to $number pm on $date .
chief executive meets hkmao new director the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , met the new director of the hong kong and macau affairs office (hkmao) of the state council , mr liao hui , today ( saturday ) in shenzhen to exchange views on developments since the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) .
" this is our $number meeting .
both of us agree that an early meeting will help strengthen our working relationship , " mr tung said .
" we exchange views on hksar 's operation under the concepts of ' one country , two systems ' , ' hong kong people ruling hong kong ' and ' a high degree of autonomy ' since $date . "
mr tung said the hkmao took an active part in preparing for the establishment of the sar throughout the years , thus providing a firm base for the smooth operation of the sar today .
" since $date , both the sar government and its people are fully confident in meeting challenges in the new era . we are also working hard for the development of hong kong in the $number century , " he said .
mr liao said hong kong had been progressing extremely well since its handover two months ago with a stable society and a prosperous economy .
the sar government led by mr tung had been operating successfully and efficiently .
mr liao said the hkmao would play the role of a goal keeper , a liaison officer and an attendant to facilitate sar government 's communication with the central government and its various departments at central and provincial level so as to better serve the sar government and its people .
he believed that hong kong would not only have a today which was better than yesterday , but also a tomorrow which would be brighter than today .
the legal system of hksar following is the speech by the secretary for justice , miss elsie leung , at the $number lawasia biennial conference 's luncheon in manila , philippines today ( saturday ) : ladies and gentlemen , i am greatly honoured to be here in the beautiful city of manila , addressing so many distinguished lawyers from the asian region .
it is now nearly two months since a new era began , with the reunification of hong kong with the motherland , and the birth of the hong kong special administrative region .
the international media have spoken and written much about the reunification , but i believe that many people have only a vague idea of the current legal system in the special administrative region .
in my speech today , i therefore propose to describe the key elements of that legal system , and to indicate the extent to which changes occurred on $date this year .
the resumption of sovereignty , the future administration of hong kong , and the preservation of hong kong 's economic , political , and legal systems , are governed by the sino - british joint declaration signed in $date , a binding international agreement registered with the united nations .
for $number years beyond $number it guarantees , " one country , two systems " .
except in respect of defence and foreign affairs , which will be the responsibilities of the central people 's government , the sar enjoys a high degree of autonomy . it has its own government and legislature composed of local inhabitants .
its independent role in economic and trade fields are preserved .
the hong kong sar mirrors , in all significant institutions and policies , the hong kong that existed before $date this year .
the joint declaration guarantees the continuance of the legal system .
this is repeated in the basic law - the law enacted by the national people 's congress of the prc as the constitutional framework for hong kong since $date .
article $number of the basic law is worth citing in full article $number the laws previously in force in hong kong , that is , the common law , rules of equity , ordinances , subordinate legislation and customary law shall be maintained , except for any that contravene this law , and subject to any amendment by the legislature of hong kong special administrative region .
in addition , there are specific guarantees in the joint declaration and basic law relating to the legal system , including * an independent judiciary with security of tenure , * the use of the english language , in addition to chinese , in the courts , * reliance on precedents from other common law jurisdictions , * an independent public prosecution service , * the continuing ability of overseas lawyers and law firms to practise in hong kong , * a hong kong based court of final appeal , which has replaced the privy council in london as the final appellate court for hong kong , * a requirement that the international covenant on civil and political rights as applied to hong kong shall remain in force and shall be implemented through the laws of the hong kong special administrative region .
since the basic law came into operation on $date this year , hong kong has , for $number time , a detailed written constitution , containing $number articles and three annexes .
this has great significance for our legal system .
the basic law is not simply a statement of intentions nor is it merely a policy document . it is part of hong kong 's domestic law . and a law which touches so much of hong kong 's way of life . it is a law which the hong kong courts and judges have to apply , uphold and interpret .
litigants are able to base their arguments on provisions in the basic law , and challenge actions that they believe are inconsistent with them .
the basic law has therefore created a new era of constitutional law in hong kong .
the laws previously in force - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - nevertheless , a central theme of the joint declaration and basic law is one of continuity .
article $number of the basic law , which i quoted a moment ago , is supplemented by article $number , which provides that , upon the establishment of the hong kong sar , the laws previously in force in hong kong shall be adopted as laws of the region , except for those which the standing committee of the national people 's congress declares to be in contravention of the basic law .
in $date of this year , the standing committee of the national people 's congress , acting under article $number of the basic law , adopted all the laws previously in force , save for $number ordinances which were found ( in whole or in part ) to contravene the basic law .
this means that the common law principles , and nearly all the $number - odd ordinances , that were previously in force , continue to apply in the hong kong sar .
amongst the underlying values and ideals of the common law is the fundamental concept of the rule of law .
there are several vital principles under this concept , all of which are alive and well in the sar .
one is that laws operate separately from the political system ; they are published and are accessible ; and they provide a degree of certainty and predictability as to how disputes are to be resolved .
a $number principle is that everyone , no matter how high , is subject to the law , and that a person can only be punished for conduct that is a breach of the law .
a $number principle is that of equality before the law : no one gets better or worse treatment under the law because of his or her status , wealth , race and so on .
a $number principle is that the settlement of disputes is in the hands of judges who are independent of the executive and who are not subject to pressure from any source in carrying out their duties .
the government of the sar is committed to maintaining the rule of law .
the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , made this clear in his speech at the ceremony to celebrate the establishment of the hksar on $date . this is what he said " maintaining and developing the legal system and the rule of law in hong kong is immensely important .
we will continue to ensure that the executive , legislative and judicial branches of the government will operate independently . we will keep up our efforts against corruption and maintain a clean society . we will ensure equality before the law and provide an attractive environment for investors and the people of hong kong . "
ordinances now in force - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - let me turn now to the ordinances that are now in force in the special administrative region .
two points need to be made .
$number is that all those ordinances are bilingual , and their chinese and english texts are equally authentic .
this system means that hong kong 's legislation is equally accessible to the local and international communities . the other point relates to the adaptation of the ordinances to bring them into line with the basic law .
this is being done in two stages .
$number stage was initiated by the standing committee of the national people 's congress which , in $date of this year , laid down certain general principles for interpreting the ordinances that it had adopted as laws of the sar . those general principles provided , for example , that all references to the governor shall be construed as references to the chief executive .
the principles of interpretation were incorporated into the sar 's domestic law by means of the hong kong reunification ordinance , which was enacted on $date this year .
$number stage of the adaptation process will take place in the coming months , when the government will introduce a series of bills that will make the necessary textual amendments to ordinances to bring them into line with the basic law .
the courts and judges - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - so far , i have been emphasising the continuity of the law .
what about the courts and the judges ?
article $number of the basic law provides that the judicial system previously practised in hong kong shall be maintained except for those changes consequent upon the establishment of the court of final appeal of the hong kong sar .
the legislation to establish that court has been in place for two years , and came into force on $date of this year .
the judges of the court of final appeal have now been appointed by the chief executive , in accordance with the recommendations of an independent commission , and those appointments have been endorsed by the legislature .
the jurisdiction and procedures of the court of final appeal were modelled on those of the judicial committee of the privy council . the system of appeals will therefore follow a familiar path , but appellants will benefit from the fact that the highest appellate court is now in hong kong , not on the other side of the world .
the other courts and tribunals that were previously in existence were re - established on $date this year . the only changes that took place were the re - naming of certain of those courts .
i mentioned earlier that the basic law provides that the courts of the sar shall exercise judicial power independently , free from interference .
this provision is underpinned by other articles in the basic law which provide that judges are to be appointed in accordance with the recommendations of an independent commission , and are to have security of tenure .
the continuity of the judiciary was achieved on $date this year when the chief executive , acting in accordance with the recommendations of the judicial officers recommendation commission , re - appointed all judges who were in service on the previous day .
these provisions ensured that court proceedings which had previously been instituted would not need to be started again after $date .
all courts and tribunals in the sar may operate in either english or chinese .
until comparatively recently , the hong kong courts operated only in the english language , and evidence given in cantonese had to be translated .
the process of using chinese in the courts has been a gradual one , and started in the magistracies $date .
great care has been taken to ensure that the quality and integrity of the legal system are not compromised by the use of the chinese language .
it is for the judge in any case to decide which language to use at any particular stage .
and , regardless of which language the judge chooses to use , the parties , witnesses , and legal representatives in any case may use either or both of the official languages .
in other words , a judge could ( for example ) decide to use chinese when hearing evidence and english when giving directions to a jury .
and a legal representative before him could choose to use either language as he or she thought fit .
no one is therefore being required to abandon the use of english in court .
the increasing use of chinese in the courts is of immeasurable value to the community , since it removes a language barrier , helps to de - mystify the law and promotes the ideal that the law belongs to the people .
for $number time , the vast majority of hong kong 's population now has access to the law in their own language . and if they are ever involved in a court case , it will be possible for the proceedings to be heard in their own language .
these developments in no way prejudice english - speaking individuals or businesses that make hong kong their home or business - centre .
international rights and obligations - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - hong kong is an international business and financial centre . it benefits from many international agreements , which play a vital role in facilitating its legal and commercial links with the international community .
about $number multilateral international agreements apply to the hong kong sar . these include agreements in the fields of civil aviation , merchant shipping , private international law , protection of labour standards , and customs cooperation .
they also relate to many international organisations in which hong kong participates , such as the world trade organisation , the asian development bank , the world health organisation , the customs cooperation council , the international maritime organisation , and the world intellectual property organisation .
in accordance with the basic law , the sar is also able to negotiate and conclude bilateral agreements in areas such as air services , investment promotion and protection , surrender of fugitive offenders , mutual legal assistance , and transfer of sentenced persons .
these include $number air services agreements , $number investment promotion and protection agreements , eight surrender of fugitive offenders agreements , and three mutual legal assistance agreements .
negotiations are continuing with additional partners in order that a reasonably comprehensive framework of bilateral agreements can soon be in place .
links with the mainland - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - finally , i would like to discuss the increasing links between the legal system of the sar and the legal system of the mainland .
the concept of " one country - two systems " implies one country - two legal systems . two entirely different legal systems co - exist within the same country .
however , given the economic and social ties between the two jurisdictions , there need to be growing links between the two systems .
we need to ensure that the inter - face between the two legal systems is efficient , but does not undermine the integrity of the sar 's common law system .
the hong kong special administrative region will need to have effective mechanisms in place for mutual legal assistance , including the surrender of fugitive offenders between it and the mainland .
these arrangements must be based firmly on proper legal procedures .
once they are in place , it will be possible to enforce hong kong judgements and arbitral awards in the mainland and vice versa ; to serve in one jurisdiction judicial documents issued in the other jurisdiction ; and to obtain from one jurisdiction the surrender of a fugitive who is found in the other .
alongside these mechanisms for legal co - operation , there will be a continuing expansion of contacts between lawyers from the mainland and hong kong , and increasing understanding by those lawyers of the two different systems .
again this can only be to the benefit of both jurisdictions .
the way ahead - - - - - - - - - - - - - let me conclude with a few observations .
the establishment and maintenance of the hksar are long term undertakings , which started with the opening of sino - british negotiations $date , included the resumption of sovereignty on the $date , and extend into the future .
they depend on the efforts not only of government officials , but also of non governmental organizations and individuals whose contributions have made one country - two systems a reality .
the construction of the new government has by no means been an easy task .
britain does not have a written constitution . neither did colonial hong kong . however , as from $date the basic law , which is our mini constitution , has become effective .
constitutional challenges based on the basic law may arise for many reasons . for example , a debtor may wish to delay payment of his debt , or a criminal may wish to avoid the sentence that may be meted out to him .
challenges may also arise for political reasons .
whatever the reason , there may be teething problems for the interface of the basic law with the laws in force in hong kong .
indeed , the question of the validity of the provisional legislative council has already been tested before the court of appeal , which upheld its legality towards the end of $date .
the court efficiently , effectively and expeditiously disposed of this issue of public importance and , in the meantime , other prosecutions went on without any delay .
the court scrutinised the events leading up to the formation of the provisional legislative council and held that it was properly constituted under the constitution of the prc .
because of the derailment of the legislative 'through - train ' , it was necessary to put in place a machinery until the government could function normally .
this case shows that , under the legal system of hong kong , every citizen has access to the courts , can have an issue determined by the courts , and can challenge acts of the government .
furthermore , barristers volunteered their services without payment to help the litigant who raised the question of legality of the provisional legislature , and the judges adjudicated on the issue fairly and squarely rather than dodging the question before the court .
this shows how the system of the rule of law has been maintained - it is maintained because the rule of law is built into our system : the system of appointment of judges , and the security of tenure of their offices , the independent legal profession and an informed public who know their rights .
similar constitutional challenges will continue , but we are ready for them .
we shall continue to maintain the legal system , the rule of law and to uphold the basic law which are necessary to make one country - two systems a success .
conclusion - - - - - - - - - - what conclusions can be drawn from the various aspects of the sar 's legal system that i have discussed ?
$number is that continuity is the key element .
the laws previously in force , the court system , the judges , and international rights and obligations are to a very large extent the same now as before $date .
$number conclusion is that the sar has benefited from a number of developments .
it now has a detailed , written , constitution containing many essential guarantees ; a court of final appeal has been established in the sar ; and the community can look forward to the greater use of chinese in the courts , and to increasing legal co - operation with the mainland .
the vision of 'one country , two systems ' is now a reality and , in the new era , i have no doubt that the legal system will be the cornerstone of the sar 's growing success story .
more customs staff required for new airport when the new airport comes into operation in $date next year , the customs and excise department has to increase manpower at the airport to cope with its $number - hour operation .
this was said today ( saturday ) by the chairman of the airport authority , mr wong po - yan , when taking the salute of a passing - out parade of $number probationary customs officers at the department 's training school .
" the department has been and will continue to be playing an important role in maintaining hong kong 's integrity as an international commercial and trading centre , " mr wong noted .
he pointed out that there would also be a requirement in the near future to extend customs operations at other land border crossings , apart from the new airport .
" the move is to cope with further extensions of opening hours and to man improved facilities , " he added .
to face these challenges , he called on the customs new recruits to perform their duties with diligence , determination , efficiency and high degree of adaptability in addition to the intelligence and integrity expected of all civil servants .
in conclusion , mr wong also told the new recruits that they had a wider set of responsibilities than any other customs administrations in the world , as hong kong was a free port and had extensive international contacts .
seven organisations to raise funds in $date seven organisations have been granted permission to raise funds for charitable purposes in $date , a spokesman for the social welfare department said today ( saturday ) .
they will either sell flags , tokens or similar items , or place donation boxes in designated public places .
members of the public can call the department 's hotline $number $number in case of doubt .
any organisation planning to hold activities involving collection of money or sale or exchange for donation of badges , tokens or similar articles in a public place for charitable purposes should apply for a public subscription permit from the social welfare department .
the spokesman appealed to organisers to take precautions against any possible fraud .
" sellers should display the permit or carry copies of the permit for inspection upon request if the fund - raising is mobile , " he said .
the spokesman also advised them to prepare guidelines for sellers , setting out the places and the times for selling and the collection points for bags .
" organisers should inform the police in case of loss of property , and seek their help when fraudulent acts , such as tampering of collection bags or making unauthorised selling , are found , " he added .
permits are given to the following organisations for raising funds next month : flag day organisation $date christian concern for the homeless association $date the warehouse teenage club ltd .
$date hong kong playground association $date steward 's co .
( hong kong ) ltd .
subscription date organisation $date , echo valley evangelistic association for $number , $number & $number the handicaps ltd . $date , raleigh international hong kong committee $number , $number & $date $number senior citizen home safety association & $number end
$number issue of occupational safety bulletin published the labour department had published $number issue of the occupational safety and health bulletin to tell employers and employees the latest development on the occupational safety and health (osh) ordinance .
some practical advice on how to deal with the most common occupational health problems was also given in the issue .
the occupational safety and health regulation , $number in a series of five subsidiary regulations under the osh ordinance , had become effective on $date .
" the regulation requires the employer and occupier of premises to provide proper housekeeping and basic amenities in the workplace and to take certain precautions in manual handling operations , " deputy commissioner for labour ( occupational safety and health ) , mr lee kai - fat , said today ( saturday ) .
mr lee said therefore some coverage on risk assessment , the compliance standards we have in mind in an office setting and some common occupational health issues , including the correct way to handle a load , were carried in this issue .
" we will also be producing pamphlets and guidance materials on various aspects of the new legislation over the next few months , " he added .
special training courses and services would be provided by the department 's occupational safety and health training centre to make it easier to understand new safety rules .
the centre had recently been moved to $number / f , city landmark , $number chung on street , tsuen wan .
enquiries can be made at $number $number .
up to $date , the labour department had issued $number improvement notices and $number suspension notices to employers and contractors found to have safety problems , requiring them to rectify the faults within a given period .
most notices were complied with promptly , making it unnecessary for the department to prosecute any employer .
this showed that workplace safety had been improved in a positive manner by the employers and contractors .
copies of the bulletin had been sent to every employer employing more than five persons .
additional copies can be obtained at the field offices of the occupational safety and health branch and the district offices .
statement from the chief executive following is a statement by the sarce , mr tung chee hwa , on the death of the princess of wales : " i am deeply shocked and saddened to hear the death of the princess of wales , i would like to send my deepest condolences to bereaved members of her family , " mr tung chee hwa , the chief executive , said today ( sunday ) end
hkma quarterly bulletin ( $date issue ) the hong kong monetary authority published its latest issue of the quarterly bulletin today ( $date ) with a report of the year $number ( y2k ) survey on all authorised banking institutions .
the y2k problem arises from the fact that some computer systems use only two digits to represent the year in data fields and this can cause problems when systems encounter dates beyond $date .
in order to assess the readiness of authorised institutions ( ais ) in coping with the y2k problem , a survey was conducted by the hkma in may this year .
results of the survey showed that $number per cent of the ais are already y2k compliant .
for systems that were critical to the continuing operation of the institution , $number per cent of the institutions expect to be y2k compliant by the end of $number and another $number have confirmed that they will be compliant by the end of $number .
also published in the $date issue of the quarterly bulletin is the article " self regulation through the code of banking practice " which describes the evolution of the code from its drafting stage right up to its implementation .
the code was jointly issued by the hong kong association of banks and the hong kong association of restricted licence banks and deposit - taking companies on $date after nearly one year of extensive consultation and preparation .
the code aims to improve the transparency and quality of banking services in hong kong .
the quarterly bulletin also contains regular articles on the banking and monetary environment during the quarter ending $date .
the quarterly bulletin , which is on sale at the government publications centre , may also be ordered from the press and publications section of the hkma .
enforcement campaign on safety in catering industry the labour department today ( monday ) launched a one - and - half - month - long enforcement campaign to enhance workplace safety in the catering industry .
acting chief factory inspector , mr wong ching - kwok , said the campaign was a continuation of a special exercise conducted by the department in may this year which aimed at bringing about safety improvement in the catering industry .
" during the campaign , officers of the labour department will make surprise inspections to restaurants , fast food shops , cafes and canteens , " mr wong said .
" prosecutions will be taken , without prior warning , against proprietors and workers who breach the safety and health provisions under the factories and industrial undertakings ordinance .
suspension notices and improvement notices will be served to catering operators when necessary , " he added .
mr wong reminded proprietors and workers of catering establishments to maintain vigilance on work safety , particularly on housekeeping , fire protection and machine safety .
under the factories and industrial undertakings ordinance , proprietors failing to fulfil their legal obligations will be liable to a maximum fine of $ $number and $number months ' imprisonment . employees who contravene safety regulations may also be fined up to $ $number and jailed for six months .
" although there has been improvement in the overall safety performance in the catering industry , the number of accidents remain unacceptably high , " mr wong said .
a total of $number workplace accidents were recorded in the catering industry $date compared with $number $date , a decrease of $number .
the number of accidents occurred in $number quarter of this year was $number , an increase of $number when compared with the figure of $number in the same period last year .
" the department is committed to further bringing down workplace accidents in the industry , " he added .
during the special exercise conducted in may , officers of the occupational safety and health branch called on the management of sizeable and chain catering establishments and advised them on safety management systems , safety systems of work , safety of new workers and other safety issues .
actions to reduce the weight of school bags the education department calls for actions to reduce the weight of school bags .
the department is very concerned about over - weight school bags , in particular their possible harmful effects on the formation of spines on primary and junior secondary students . the department considers it important that measures are taken to tackle the problem , and wishes to obtain support and co - operation from schools .
a set of updated guidelines suggested students should be encouraged to develop the habit of packing school bags every day and discouraged from bringing toys , magazines and unnecessary items to schools .
schools should advise students on the types of school bags as well as the correct posture in carrying them . parents ' co - operation and support should be sought so that the advice given to students at school will be reinforced at home .
time - tables should be designed so as to avoid students from bringing a large number of textbooks , workbooks or exercise books to school on any day of the week or cycle .
among other qualities , schools should consider the weight and size of textbooks before determining which textbooks should be prescribed , and avoid too many supplementary workbooks and additional exercise books .
the guidelines also suggested schools to provide students with facilities such as lockers , as far as possible , to store books , stationary and personal items .
teachers should avoid punishing students for occasionally failing to bring books or other items in class .
schools are encouraged to draw up and implement other measures which they consider practicable and effective in their own circumstances , with a view to reduce the weight of school bags .
in addition , the department has designed a new pamphlet on " reducing the weight of school bags " for distribution to parents through schools .
members of the public can also collect the pamphlet at the department 's district offices .
the pamphlet aims at explaining to parents the possible harmful effects of overweight school bags , encouraging them to select school bags and items made of light - weight materials , and reminding them to help their children pack school bags every day if necessary according to the school time - table .
trade and industry bureau 's homepage launched members of the public can now gain access to information relating to the trade and industrial infrastructure through the homepage set up by the trade and industry bureau on the internet today ( monday ) .
the homepage gives a description of the role , responsibilities and organisation of the trade and industry bureau , and its four main programme areas including trade promotion , support for industry , protection of intellectual property rights and consumer protection .
additionally , consultation papers relating to the bureau 's policy responsibilities will be put on the homepage .
the homepage will be updated regularly to provide internet users with the latest information .
the address of the homepage is http : / / www.info.gov.hk / tib .
chief executive 's visit to us the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , will commence his visit to the united states next monday ( $date ) , departing for washington on ua $number at $number am .
he will be accompanied by the secretary for trade and industry , miss denise yue , his private secretary , mr joshua law , and press secretary , miss au king - chi .
the party will return to hong kong during weekend .
manila bay accident the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , has assured the action group on the manila bay tragedy that the government would do its best to facilitate the families of the victims in seeking a full and fair account of the cause and circumstances leading to the tragedy that took place on $date .
responding to an appeal for assistance from the action group , mr tung said today ( tuesday ) that he had written to president ramos personally to reflect to him the recent concerns of the group .
also , mr tung 's office has passed a copy of the action group 's appeal letter to the consul - general of the philippines for follow - up action .
president ramos has assured the chief executive that the appropriate philippine authorities would continue their investigation of the said event in order to pinpoint responsibility and to render justice .
education department 's response on textbooks supply in response to media enquiries on a delay in the production of some textbooks for the new school year , a spokesman for the education department said today ( tuesday ) : " it has been a normal practice for publishers to submit textbooks for review quarterly , i.e. in $date , may , $date and $date every year , except for the category of 'reprint with minor amendments ' .
" in view of the change of sovereignty $date , the education department anticipated $date that factual contents of certain textbooks would have to be amended to accord with the sino - british joint declaration and the basic law .
" as textbook is one of the resources to support teaching , its content should be impartial and factually correct to facilitate training of independent thinking and analytical skills amongst students . " thus , in $date , basic principles and examples from a number of subjects were given to textbook publishers associations on textbook revision . those basic principles included 'revision should be kept to the minimum and complete revision of textbooks should be avoided ' .
" to ensure that pupils could obtain revised textbooks at the beginning of the new school year , the education department met with the publishers associations in $date and agreed that publishers wishing to amend their textbooks to accord with the 'one country , two systems ' principle in the category of 'reprint with minor amendments ' for the coming school year could submit their books on or before $date .
" the education department would deploy staff to speed up book review work and to inform publishers of the results of the review on or before $date .
publishers were given the flexibility to provide such amendments to teachers and students in the form of pamphlets or supplementary sheets .
" all the above measures were introduced to cope with the changes taking place in society and to deal with the issue of textbook revision flexibly , so that amended versions of textbooks could be ready for use before the school term begins .
" until $date , the education department had received from publishers $number volumes of textbooks for review under the above category and the results of the review were given to publishers as scheduled .
" all these were done to facilitate publishers to arrange the printing of their books in time .
" delay in publication of individual textbooks in certain subjects by some publishers as reported may be due to factors such as reprinting strategies of individual publishers . "
bus services for tung chung strengthened in response to press enquiries on public transportation for school children to tung chung , a spokesman for the transport department said today ( tuesday ) that all bus services have been strengthened from yesterday to cater for anticipated increases in demand for the new school term .
" there are at present three external bus routes running between tung chung new town and the urban areas in kowloon and the new territories .
e21 , operating between tai kok tsui ferry pier and tung chung , serves mainly passengers from kowloon south , kowloon west and the hong kong island .
e22 , departing from kowloon city ferry pier , are for passengers heading from kowloon east to tung chung .
" passengers from tsuen wan , kwai chung , new territories west as well as the new territories east via shing mun tunnels may take route no . e31 which departs from tsuen wan ferry pier and operates via the tsuen wan mtr station .
" in view of anticipated increases in traffic demand in the new school term starting $date , services of the three bus routes have been strengthened with more frequent and additional departures during the morning peak hours between $number am and $number am .
" the peak hour frequency of routes no . e21 and e31 will be further enhanced from $number and $number - minute interval to $number and $number - minute respectively . " services of route no .
e22 will be strengthened when necessary .
e31 from tsing yi rather than from tsuen wan ferry pier have been arranged and will be further enhanced subject to demand . " additional buses will be deployed to tung chung new town to cater for the demand of school children returning home after school , " the spokesman said .
the transport department and the bus companies concerned will closely monitor the situation and make special arrangements if necessary .
moreover , regarding the ferry service between tuen mun and tung chung as mentioned in a newspaper today , members of the public are advised that these ferries are contracted for carrying workers to chek lap kok only , the spokesman said .
" it will be illegal for these ferries to carry passengers other than workers of the new airport because it is a breach of their operation conditions . " parents of school children should advise their children not to take these ferries to tung chung as any personal injuries and damages to property will be at their own risk , " the spokesman added .
rules to raise fees and charges of sfc endorsed the chief executive - in - council endorsed , at its meeting last tuesday , the making of the securities and futures commission ( fees ) ( amendment ) rules $number to revise the fees and charges of the commission .
announcing this today ( tuesday ) , a government spokesman said : " the rules aim to bring up the levels of fees and charges in relation to the three major functional areas , namely intermediaries , investment products and corporate finance of the securities and futures commission (sfc) so as to compensate for the increases in costs in accordance with the full cost recovery policy .
" the rules also introduce two new fees following a recent fee review which has identified certain services currently being provided free of charge . "
it is the government 's objective that the sfc should be funded by the market and that it should recover as far as possible its expenses on specific services provided through fees and charges set out in the securities and futures commission ( fees ) rules .
section $number of the sfc ordinance and section $number of schedule $number of the interpretation and general clauses ordinance ( cap . $number ) provide that the chief executive - in - council may , after consultation with the sfc , make rules providing for the payment to the sfc of fees or other charges in relation to services provided by the sfc .
" the fees and charges of sfc have not been revised $date .
the current exercise increases the fees and charges of the majority items of services provided by the sfc by no $number per cent which is relatively moderate as compared to the cumulative inflation during the period .
such lower than inflation adjustments are a result of the success of the sfc in improving their efficiency " , the spokesman added .
the rules are scheduled to be gazetted this friday ( $date ) before coming into effect on $date .
prospect for external investment in hong kong optimistic the smooth handover of hong kong has proven to be a major disappointment to those who are pessimistic about the future of hong kong , the director - general of industry , mr francis ho , said today ( tuesday ) when addressing a group of japanese businessmen at an investment seminar held in yokohama , japan .
he said that it was no surprise that hong kong remained a robust , dynamic and vibrant economy after china 's resumption of the exercise of sovereignty , given the guarantees in the basic law , the commitment of the chinese leadership to the " one country - two systems " arrangement and the very sound economic fundamentals of hong kong .
" if there is going to be any changes in hong kong 's economy after it becomes a special administrative region of china , it will be the further development of economic interdependence between hong kong and mainland china , " he said .
" because of hong kong 's excellent infrastructure , robust financial market and its role as an international business hub , " said mr ho , " many overseas investors who wish to enter the chinese market often finds it desirable to have a hong kong partner or to set up a regional office in hong kong . "
mr ho also referred to a survey conducted by the hong kong japanese chamber of commerce and industry in which $number per cent of the respondents considered hong kong 's business environment $date either favourable or very favourable .
he said that the results of similar surveys conducted by other countries ' chambers of commerce in hong kong were also favourable , which spoke volumes for the confidence of overseas investors in hong kong $date .
the director - general of industry highlighted hong kong 's intimate economic links with japan , the country where the investment seminar was held .
" japan is the largest external investor in hong kong 's manufacturing industries and $number largest external investor in overall terms after the uk and china .
as at end of $number , the total value of japanese investment in hong kong amounted to us $ $number , or $number per cent of the total external investment in hong kong . "
concluding his address , mr ho said that hong kong valued japanese investment and would like to assure japanese investors that the social , legal and economic system in hong kong has remained unchanged after china 's resumption of the exercise of sovereignty .
mr ho will attend another investment seminar in tokyo tomorrow before returning to hong kong on $date .
public reminded on profits tax consultation deadline the period for public consultation on the profits tax review will end on saturday ( $date ) and government today ( tuesday ) reminded interested parties to send in their views before the deadline .
a government spokesman said , " the consultative document on the profits tax review was issued on $date to invite public opinions on the issue .
the aim is to improve and streamline our profits tax system in order to enhance the competitiveness of hong kong 's business environment .
government will take into account the opinions so received in its review of profits tax .
" the consultation period will end this saturday .
interested parties should send their views to the finance bureau by post , by fax ( fax number : $number $number ) or through electronic mail ( e - mail address : info@fb.gcn.gov.hk ) before then . "
copies of the consultative document are available from the inland revenue department at revenue tower , wan chai or from the internet website : http://www.info.gov.hk/fb .
spc credit limited granted restricted banking licence a spokesman for the hong kong monetary authority today ( tuesday ) announced that spc credit limited (spc) had been granted a restricted banking licence by the monetary authority under the banking ordinance on $date .
spc is a wholly owned subsidiary of american international group , inc . (aig) , which is a us - based international insurance and financial services organisation .
spc has operated as a deposit - taking company $date . its main business is the provision of residential mortgage loans , taxi / public light bus financing and consumer finance .
with the granting of a restricted banking licence to spc , the number of restricted licence banks in hong kong has increased to $number .
plc members visit stanley prison a group of members of the provisional legislative council (plc) today ( tuesday ) visited the staff training institute of the correctional services department to see the training of csd recruits and also toured stanley prison to see the management and operation of hong kong 's top maximum security penal institution .
the nine members of the plc were accompanied on the two visits by the commissioner of correctional services , mr raymond lai ming - kee .
they were briefed by the staff training institute principal , senior superintendent , ms doris chow , on the facilities and various courses available to the recruits .
hongkong post wins bronze medal in prix olympia ' $number hongkong post was today ( tuesday ) awarded a bronze medal in the prix olympia ' $number which honoured the three most beautiful stamps issued on the occasion of the atlanta olympic games .
the award , established $date , was presented by mr juan antonio samaranch , president , international olympic committee , to mr robert footman , the postmaster general , as part of the inauguration ceremony of the $number international olympic committee session .
receiving the award in lausanne , switzerland , mr footman said : " this award is a great honour for hongkong post . it reflects our commitment to the highest design standards for our commemorative stamps .
" happily the award coincides with the achievement of our athletes in the olympic and paralympic games at atlanta when miss lee lai shan won a gold medal for windsurfing while mr ben cheung and others won $number gold , silver and bronze medals , " he added .
the award winning stamps , designed by mr bon kwan , were among some $number postal administrations issued stamps commemorating the atlanta olympic games $date . the gold and silver medals have been won by the colombian and swiss postal administrations respectively .
keen response for annual stamp pack and album the acting postmaster general , mr p c luk , today ( tuesday ) said that the application for ordering the $number annual stamp pack and the $number prestige annual stamp album had received very good response from the public .
" the application closed on $date and a total of some $number and $number applications for the stamp pack and stamp album have been received respectively .
" due to the overwhelming response , a computer balloting was held on $date , " mr luk said .
the $number and $number successful applicants for the stamp pack and stamp album respectively will be notified by letter on or before next monday ( $date ) .
" starting from next monday to $date , they can buy the products at the post office they selected , " mr luk said , adding that unsuccessful applicants would not be informed individually .
applicants who wish to find out whether their applications are successful may dial the $number - hour enquiry hotline on $number $number .
reply : madam president , (a) the following control measures are in place to control the use of pyrotechnics in shooting films : (i) the use of pyrotechnics in shooting films is regulated by section $number of the dangerous goods ( general ) regulations ( cap $number ) , and a permit is required for such activities .
the secretary for broadcasting , culture and sport and the director of marine are the authorities responsible for issue of permits for the discharge of pyrotechnics on land and on water respectively .
they will consult relevant departments ( including the hong kong police force , fire services department , mines and quarries division of the civil engineering department , and the electrical and mechanical services department ) , and set licensing conditions relating to fire precautions and the protection of public safety before approving any application for a permit .
(ii) a pyrotechnician responsible for the discharge of pyrotechnics must be registered with the commissioner of mines before a permit is granted .
this is to ensure that pyrotehcnics are discharged by a pyrotechnician who is experienced in discharging pyrotechnics and producing pyrotechnic effect . a pyrotechnician is usually required to give a demonstration in respect of the discharge of pyrotechnics which is the subject of a permit application .
( iii ) a licence and a permit issued by the commissioner of mines is required for storage and conveyance of pyrotechnics respectively .
(iv) a declaration of fitness issued by the marine department is required for a vessel carrying or conveying pyrotechnics .
(v) the use of fuel gas in film shooting should comply with the relevant provisions of the gas safety ordinance ( cap $number ) .
under the registration of gas installers and gas contractors regulations , any gas installation work should be carried out by a registered gas installer employed by a registered gas contractor .
(vi) a dangerous goods licence should be obtained from the director of fire services for using $number litres of petrol in shooting films .
( vii ) the hong kong police force (hkpf) does not have specific control measures at present . however , the use of modified firearms and blank ammunition will require an exemption permit issued by the licensing division of the hkpf . the police public relations branch should be informed of the film - shooting three working days in advance . to ensure compliance with the conditions set out in the permits , the mines and quarries division of the civil engineering department conducts surprise checks .
depending on the scale of the approved activities , the marine department will deploy its launches to patrol the waters concerned .
if necessary , they will notify the marine police to be on the alert .
officers of the marine department on board its patrol launches will also closely monitor such activities .
(b) while the government has adopted measures to assess the competence of pyrotechnicians in using pyrotechnics for shooting films , there is no statutory requirement for a pyrotechnician to be registered .
we shall review the existing application procedures and arrangements , and shall consider carefully the feasibility of introducing a pyrotechnician licensing system if its establishment is conducive to the safe use of pyrotechnics in film shooting by the film industry .
(c) apart from pyrotechnics , dangerous goods such as fuel and inflammable gas will also be used in making films to enhance the effect and the sense of reality of explosion scenes .
to protect the safety of film - making personnel and the public , any new proposals on the regulation of the use of pyrotechnics will require careful examination by the relevant government departments .
we intend to consult and discuss with the film industry on implementation standards with a view to coming up with a regulatory system which can protect public safety on the one hand and is user and business friendly to the film industry on the other .
legal basis for transfer of prisoners before $date following is a question by the hon mrs elise tu and a reply by the secretary for security , mr peter lai , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : will the government inform this council whether all prisoners of britain , european and north american nationalities serving prison terms in hong kong were sent back to their countries of origin shortly before the reunification of hong kong with the mainland , while requests for the same treatment from prisoners whose countries of origin are in the " $number world " were rejected ; if so , what the relevant details were ?
reply : madam president , prior to $date , transfer of prisoners between hong kong and another country were effected under the following arrangements : (i) transfer between hong kong and $number countries , which include $number european countries and the usa , canada and turkey , may be effected under the council of europe convention on the transfer of sentenced persons , which was extended to hong kong by the repatriation of prisoners ( overseas territories ) order $number as subsequently amended .
(ii) transfer between hong kong and thailand may be effected under the uk - thailand agreement on the transfer of offenders and on co - operation in the enforcement of penal sentences , which was extended to hong kong by the repatriation of prisoners ( overseas territories ) order $number as subsequently amended .
( iii ) transfer between hong kong and the united kingdom may be effected pursuant to an arrangement between the hong kong government and the united kingdom government in $date , and on the basis of the provisions of the council of europe convention on the transfer of sentenced persons , such an arrangement was given legal effect by virtue of section $number of the repatriation of prisoners act $number extended to hong kong by the repatriation of prisoners ( overseas territories ) order $number as subsequently amended .
taken together , these arrangements provide for the transfer of prisoners between hong kong and $number countries , most of which are in europe and north america .
transfer of prisoners between hong kong and other countries of the world , including most so - called " $number world " countries , was not legally possible under any of the above three arrangements .
in $number six months of $number , a total of eight prisoners were transferred out of hong kong to continue to serve their sentences in their home countries .
these include one to turkey , one to norway , one to the netherlands , two to canada , two to the uk and one to ireland .
in the same period $number prisoners were transferred into hong kong to continue to serve their sentences ; these include $number from thailand and one from usa .
no request for outward transfer of prisoners who meet the legal requirements mentioned above has been refused .
sarg operates a liberal visa policy following is a question by the hon lo suk - ching and a reply by the secretary for security , mr peter lai , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : on $date this year , the immigration department published a list of countries and regions with which visa - free arrangements have been made , thus enabling persons from $number countries and regions to visit hong kong on a visa - free basis and stay for periods varying from not more than seven days to one month , three months or six months .
the list shows that only british citizens may stay in hong kong for six months .
in this connection , will the government inform this council of the reasons for according britain a visa - free arrangement which is different from those granted to other countries , bearing in mind that hong kong and britain are no longer bound by any special constitutional relationship after the change of sovereignty ?
reply : madam president , before $date , british citizens are allowed to enter hong kong visa - free and to stay in hong kong for one year without any conditions on each entry .
in late $number , because of the impending change of relationship between the uk and hong kong , the administration proposed a number of changes to the privileged immigration status of british citizens .
for british citizens who intend to visit hong kong , the administration proposed to continue to allow visa - free entry but to allow a maximum visa - free visit period of six months and to impose visitor 's condition on them .
in formulating the visa policy towards nationals of a particular country , we take into consideration a number of factors such as the economic , social and cultural relationship between hong kong and that country , the number of tourists coming to hong kong from that country and vice versa , whether nationals of that country have a record of giving immigration control problems , and the treatment granted to hong kong travellers by that country ( although it is not our policy to operate on a strictly reciprocal basis . )
the proposal to allow british citizens a maximum visa - free visit period of six months was made after considering these factors .
it should be noted that hksar passport holders also enjoy a maximum visa - free visit period of six months to the uk .
the proposal received considerable support during the public consultation period and in the ( then ) legislative council , and was implemented on $date .
madam president , i should just like to add that , in keeping with the object of maintaining hong kong as an international financial , trading and touristic centre , we operate a liberal visa policy .
thus , while $number countries grant visa - free access to bn ( o ) passport holders , and $number countries grant visa - free access to hksar passport holders , we grant visa free access to $number countries .
we only impose a visa regime where it is justified by practical circumstances ; for example , where it is necessary for the protection of hong kong 's security , or for effective immigration control .
it should also be borne in mind that imposing a stringent visa regime involves additional resources to process visa applications , particularly in respect of a country from which there is a substantial visitor traffic , and may adversely affect hong kong 's tourist income .
our inclination is therefore to be more , rather than less liberal .
hong kong 's visa regime is reviewed from time to time in light of the prevailing circumstances , and we would keep in view the need to update our visa policy in the future .
tax concession offered by neighbouring countries following is a question by the hon james tien pei - chun and a written reply by the secretary for treasury , mr k c kwong , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : will the government undertake a thorough comparison between the respective tax incentives offered to industrial and commercial corporations by the hong kong special administrative region government and those by our neighbouring major competitors such as south korea , singapore , taiwan and malaysia , so that the industrial and commercial sectors in hong kong can make reference to such a comparison when giving their views on the " profits tax review consultation document " ?
reply : each economy has unique characteristics in its tax structure , regulatory framework and overall business environment .
hong kong gives a general incentive to the industrial and commercial sectors by maintaining a low , simple and predictable profits tax regime which applies across the board to all sectors .
other economies in the region offer a variety of tax incentives in different forms to selected sectors .
since these tax incentives vary so greatly in relation to different industries , different levels of investment and over different periods , making a thorough comparison between them and the position in hong kong would be exceedingly difficult , is unlikely to be meaningful and might indeed be misleading .
we will therefore welcome comments on the profits tax review consultation document which are focused on the intrinsic merits and demerits of our own system .
traffic accidents in rural area following is a question by the hon mrs miriam lau and a written reply by the secretary for transport , mr nicholas ng , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : will the government inform this council : (a) whether statistics are available on traffic accidents occurring on roads in village areas ; if so , of the number of such accidents involving pedestrians in each of the past three years ; (b) of the speed limits imposed on roads in village areas ; (c) what measures are in place to ensure the safety of pedestrians if both vehicles and pedestrians are allowed to use these roads ; and (d) whether it will consider building road humps on these roads in order to reduce the speed of vehicles ?
reply : madam president , our traffic accident database system classifies and records the type of roads according to their location , the speed limit imposed , the number of traffic lanes on the road and whether or not pavement / pedestrian footpath is provided .
there is unfortunately no such category as " village road " .
nevertheless , for the purpose of this reply , we would assume that the normal understanding of a village road is that it is in the new territories located outside new town areas , has a speed limit of $number / hr or less ( which is the normal lower end of the speed limit ) , has two lanes or fewer and does not have a footpath on at least one side of the road .
applying these criteria to our traffic accident database , we have found that the number of pedestrian accidents over the last three years on these roads is as follows : $number $number $number $number $number $number $number for comparison , during the same period , there were a total of $number pedestrian accidents on all roads in the new territories located outside new town areas and has a speed limit of $number / hr or less , and a total of $number pedestrian accidents on all roads in the territory .
for pedestrians ' safety , we put in place footpaths of adequate width on all public roads wherever practicable .
in addition , the following measures are implemented , where necessary : (a) erection of safety barriers and guardrailings to protect pedestrians or channel them onto the footpaths ; (b) provision of appropriate crossing facilities such as cautionary , zebra or signal - controlled crossings at suitable locations ; and (c) erection of warning signs to alert drivers of pedestrians crossing or moving ahead .
(d) as regards road humps , they are mainly used on private roads within housing estates where speeds are generally kept below $number km / h .
these humps may also be used for single track access roads in the vicinity of village housing where it is desirable to maintain low traffic speeds .
however , if motorists , particularly motorcyclists , have not adequately reduced their speed when passing over the road humps , accidents may easily occur .
we therefore do not normally use road humps , but install warning signs to alert motorists of any particular hazard ahead and advise them to reduce speed as appropriate .
family planning services for new arrivals following is a question by the hon mrs peggy lam and a written reply by the acting secretary for health and welfare , mr gregory leung , in the provisional legeislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : as the families of new arrivals from the mainland who have come to settle in hong kong generally have a large number of children , will the government inform this council what measures are in place to assist them in family planning ?
reply : madam president , the department of health 's maternal and child health centres ( mhcs ) and the government subsidized family planning association of hong kong (fpa) provide family planning services to people who need such services .
the services include advice on birth control and infertility counselling , and are available to new arrivals in the $number mhcs and eight fpa clinics located throughout the territory .
new arrivals from the mainland are distributed a " guidebook on services for new arrivals in hong kong " published by the home affairs department (had) when they enter hong kong .
the guidebook contains information on the family planning services available .
new arrivals may also make inquiries at public medical institutions and the district offices of had .
the health care staff of the mhcs will provide information on family planning services to the new arrivals when they attend the mhcs with their children for child health services .
the social welfare department and related social service organisations will also refer the new arrivals who need family planning advice to the relevant agencies .
study on elderly on cssa following is a question by the hon hui yin - fat and a written reply by the acting secretary for health and welfare , mr gregory leung , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : in $date / $date this year , the government revealed to the former legislative council and social service organizations that two studies on elderly recipients of assistance under the comprehensive social security assistance (cssa) scheme were being conducted .
one of the studies focused on the living conditions of the elderly who were cssa recipients , while the other centred on studying the living conditions of the elderly who were eligible for cssa but had not applied for it as well as their reasons for not applying .
the government indicated at the time that the results of these studies would be taken into account when a review of the rate of cssa payment for the elderly and other aspects of the cssa scheme , such as the prescribed asset limit , was undertaken .
in this connection , will the government inform this council whether : (a) the two studies mentioned above have been completed ; if so , when the results will be released ; (b) elderly groups , social service organisations and the public will be consulted on the findings of the studies ; if not , why not ; and (c) the government will consult elderly groups , social service organisations and the public when undertaking a review of the rate of cssa payment for the elderly and the prescribed asset limit ; if not , why not ?
reply : president , (a) the survey component of the study on the elderly on cssa has been completed .
the report is being prepared and we expect work on this study to be completed within this month .
the other study on non - cssa elderly has also commenced and is expected to complete towards the end of this year .
members and relevant parties will be informed of the findings as and when the studies are completed .
(b) and (c) we have been listening to the views of relevant parties as well as members in relation to cssa payments to the elderly .
the two studies in question , specifically commissioned to solicit $number hand the views of the 'affected parties ' , are part and parcel of the consultation exercise .
housing , education focus of ce 's talks with singapore pm housing , education and information technology have been the focus of talks today ( thursday ) between the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , and singapore 's prime minister , mr goh tok chong .
the smooth transition of hong kong to chinese sovereignty and the continued smooth running of hong kong 's economy and social systems were also discussed during mr tung 's $number visit to singapore as the chief executive .
the possibility of developing programmes which would benefit both hong kong and singapore were also explored , said mr tung .
arriving from a two - day visit to malaysia this afternoon , mr tung went directly to meet mr goh , with whom he has had a close friendship for $number years .
during the hour - long talks , described as 'warm and friendly ' , mr tung discussed singapore 's housing policy , especially in regards to price stabilisation .
on education , talks focused on the medium of instruction and the promotion of bilingual education .
mr tung also discussed the rapidly - expanding field of information technology , its key role in future development and how to enhance its use both in schools and the wider community .
after the meeting , mr tung was honoured at a cocktail reception hosted by china 's ambassador to singapore , mr chen bao liu , at the mandarin hotel .
last night mr tung and mrs betty tung were guests of honour at a state banquet hosted by prime minister goh at the elegant raffles hotel .
during the dinner , mr tung said that hong kong and singapore had achieved a great deal over the past $number years .
" i am confident both of us will scale new heights in the $number century , " he said .
the chief executive said that a prosperous and stable hong kong , working under the 'one country , two systems ' concept in the years to come could contribute greatly to china as it moved forward confidently into the $number century .
" we , in hong kong , in turn can benefit greatly from a successful and confident china . so , too , can singapore and the rest of the region , " he said .
" singapore , like hong kong , is a city with much to look forward to . "
earlier , prime minister goh said that $number two months of the hong kong special administrative region had been a 'good two months ' .
" all reports have noted the smooth transition , with life carrying on as usual , " he said .
" the lack of excitement in hong kong is testimony to the calm and confident manner you have led hong kong , based on the solid foundation laid by china and the united kingdom in the joint declaration .
" singapore is pleased to see hong kong prosper .
those who see the competition of our two cities as a zero sum are simplistic and uninformed .
" in the years coming i see even greater synergy between the economies of southern china and southeast asia .
i see the links between hong kong and singapore strengthened , not weakened . "
mr tung has another busy day ahead tomorrow ( friday ) starting with a breakfast meeting with the hong kong - singapore business association , briefings on singapore 's education and housing systems , a visit to the hong kong economic and trade office (hketo) in singapore and a keynote luncheon speech co - organised by the hketo and the singapore chinese chamber of commerce and industry .
ce happy with success of $number overseas visit the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , says he is happy with the success of his $number overseas visit .
after a two - day visit to malaysia , the chief executive said he had successfully explained to malaysian leaders - including the prime minister dr mahathir mohammad - as well as business and financial figures that it was 'business as usual ' in hong kong .
he said the malaysian government understood , and was supportive of , the concept of 'one country , two systems ' and had shown a keen interest in hong kong 's continued development .
mr tung said that throughout his talks there was an obvious desire on both sides to strengthen two - way economic , trade and investment ties .
government is functioning as normal , economy continues to expand and our lifestyle which we are accustomed to has not changed , " he said .
" things are going very well and i am glad they were happy with this message .
they , too , share our confidence of the future .
" we also talked about how to , obviously , deepening and strengthening the hong kong - malaysia relationship because this trading relationship is becoming very important . "
mr tung said the malaysian government has assured him that visa - free access will be given to sar passport holders .
" it will be announced very , very quickly . the details , please wait patiently , " he told reporters after a luncheon keynote address in kuala lumpur .
mr tung said discussions were also held in regards to the recent 'ups and downs in the financial markets ' in malaysia and across asia .
" it is understandable that you feel the pain and frustrations of what has happened , " he said .
" but i would like to emphasise the fundamentals in malaysia are good , the fundamentals all over asia are very good so we should look forward with confidence .
" in due course i 'm sure it will be fine . "
before his luncheon address , mr tung was briefed on the development near kuala lumpur of a multi - media super corridor , a $number - kilometre by $number - kilometre information technology 'cyberzone ' being established by the malaysian government .
the briefing included discussion on how malaysian hopes to harness the potential of information technology to improve such areas as education , government efficiency and to develop world - class research and development facilities .
" it is an impressive blueprint and definitely an area we will be looking at , " mr tung said .
ce 's transcript after speech in kuala lumpur following is a transcript of remarks by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , after a luncheon speech at the hilton hotel in kuala lumpur today ( thursday ) : i arrived here in kuala lumpur yesterday . i am departing later on this afternoon for singapore .
i had a very useful visit , very productive visit . i 'm grateful to the malaysian government for the very warm hospitality they have accorded to me and to my colleagues . i am also grateful to the chinese ambassador who has gone out of the way to make my visit here very welcome .
while i was here i had an opportunity of talking with the prime minister , the deputy prime minister , the foreign minister and minister of transport as well as leaders involved in finance and in trade in malaysia .
government is functioning as normal , economy continues to expand and our lifestyle which we are accustomed to has not changed .
things are going very well and i am glad they were happy with this message . they , too , share our confidence of the future .
we also talked about how to , obviously , deepening and strengthening the hong kong - malaysia relationship because this trading relationship is becoming very important .
we also discussed about other matters of mutual concern that the malaysian government will give us visa - free arrangement for the sar passport , the details of which we will be announcing shortly .
we also discussed about the ups and downs in the financial market and the point i want to make is that the financial market goes up and down but malaysia 's fundamentals are very good , so in due course i 'm sure it will be fine .
two english questions , two questions in chinese , then you have to go to catch a plane .
question : ( perry chow tvb hong kong ) the visa - free arrangement . what is the time frame , are the details ?
are we talking about an announcement in $date and will it be a better arrangement than the present one ? mr tung : it will be announced very , very quickly .
the details , please wait patiently .
mr tung : well , as i said , it is understandable that you feel the pain and frustrations of what has happened .
china committed to making one country two systems work - ce the complementary relationship between china and hong kong provides a solid foundation on which " one country , two systems " will work , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( thursday ) during his visit to malaysia .
hong kong and the mainland have the same long - term interest and chinese leaders have emphasised time and again the importance of maintaining hong kong 's stability and prosperity so that we can contribute to the modernisation of the whole country , mr tung said .
addressing a luncheon meeting of the asian strategy and leadership in kuala lumpur , mr tung said , " i firmly believe that if hong kong succeeds , china will benefit .
if china is prosperous , hong kong will benefit even more . "
setting out the reasons for confidence in hong kong 's future as china 's special administrative region , mr tung said $number ground for confidence was in china : " in the commitments that china has made to us , in the prospects she holds out for us , and in the determination and capabilities of her leaders to achieve their vision for a better society in the next century . "
" it is always well to remember that the concept of 'one country , two systems ' was china 's idea , not anyone else 's , " he said .
" this concept was created by men who were mindful of the fundamental interests of china as a nation and of the chinese as a people . "
" china 's leaders are completely committed to making 'one country , two systems ' work .
they trust hong kong people to administer hong kong ; they have pledged their full support for us . "
" from my own experience over the last eight months , " mr tung said , " i can tell you that the central government has given us a free hand in dealing with our internal affairs and has given us every encouragement to succeed . "
he said that the basic law had committed china to giving hong kong a high degree of autonomy under the " one country , two systems " concept .
" the basic law guarantees that hong kong will maintain its existing legal , social and economic systems . it allows us to keep the existing freedoms and life style of our people ; it protects the right of private ownership ; retains for hong kong a separate currency and customs territory ; and it reaffirms our long established policies of prudent financial management and low taxation . "
" these guarantees are firm and legally binding , " mr tung said .
the chief executive said that china had undergone dramatic changes since it opened up to the outside world $date with the economy growing at a remarkable rate , averaging almost $number per cent per annum .
" today , the leaders of china have a global outlook .
they have a clear vision of the future and have the ability and the understanding needed to steer china successfully into $date . "
" their perception and understanding make us confident in the exercise of a high degree of autonomy for hong kong under the 'one country , two systems ' concept , " he said .
apart from the trust in china , mr tung said hong kong had much else on which to base its confidence .
" there is the solid foundation we have in the rule of law . this underpins our free market , the work of our civil service and the quality of our community . we will maintain this legacy , " he said .
" the rule of law has kept our society open , fair and law abiding .
our excellent police force and vigorous anti - corruption body have cracked down hard on anyone breaking the law .
we will maintain that effective enforcement and will uphold the principle that everyone , chief executive included , is subject to the law . "
mr tung said hong kong was blessed with a superb civil service , committed to the very highest standards of public administration .
" thanks to their careful management , we have a very solid fiscal position , steady revenues , well controlled expenditure and extremely strong financial reserves .
ample reserves are a comfort , but my greatest reason for confidence is the indomitable spirit of the people of hong kong themselves .
what they have achieved within my lifetime is staggering . "
" we have experienced entrepreneurs and investors and an increasingly well educated , forward looking pool of young people , giving us the talent and the drive to keep on succeeding in whatever the world holds for us . "
noting that hong kong 's prosperity was built on the firm foundations of a free market , free enterprise and free trade , maximum competition and a level playing field , mr tung said none of these would change under his administration .
" my government will continue to provide a stable environment , facilitating , not directing the market so that the private sector can maximise its contribution and make the best use of the opportunities available . "
" we will continue to encourage foreign investment and attract multi - national corporations to come to hong kong .
we will provide a favourable investment climate and the necessary infrastructure to support their operation in hong kong . "
stressing the importance of being alert to challenges which lay ahead , mr tung said the government 's foremost task was to enhance hong kong 's economic vitality and sustain the economic growth that provided the means to improve the livelihood of the people of hong kong .
" we aim to create a business environment and provide an educated , well trained workforce , that will promote the services sector and the development of value - added and high technology industries , " he said .
" we will also carry on with the development of our institutions of government to the timetable laid down in our constitution , the basic law .
we are doing that not because we have been told by people in long established democracies , but because we know how important it is to hong kong . "
mr tung said he had been chosen for a five - year term by an election committee composed wholly of hong kong people , drawn from every walk of life .
" $date , my successor will be chosen by a similar committee of hong kong people , " he said .
" in may next year , elections for $number full legislative council will be held .
members of every political party will be welcome to take part , every adult permanent resident eligible to vote .
those elected will serve for two years . "
$date , $number legislative council will be elected for a four year term , and $date , for $number election , half the seats will be returned by direct elections .
after ten years , the basic law makes clear that it is for hong kong people to decide for themselves how to develop the executive and legislative elections , with the ultimate aim of universal suffrage .
" it is a document drawn up for hong kong 's condition , providing stability in the organisation of our government while maintaining the steady evolution of democratic institutions , " he said .
" there is much that needs to be done in hong kong , but we have a solid foundation upon which we can build our future , and we have the commitment and support of our sovereign to make 'one country , two systems ' a success .
" all of us in hong kong are confident that as we move into $date we can write wonderfully new and successful chapters in the history of our city . "
ce 's luncheon speech in malaysia following is the speech by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , at the asian strategy and leadership luncheon in kuala lumpur , malaysia today ( thursday ) : distinguished guests , ladies and gentlemen , it is an honour and a pleasure for me as $number chief executive of the hong kong special administrative region to come to malaysia for my $number overseas visit .
i am most grateful for the warm welcome that you and your government have given to me , and i am delighted to be here to wish you all a very happy $number birthday as an independent nation .
i am sure that everyone in malaysia can understand why $date was a special day for us in hong kong .
it was a day that we had looked forward to with a natural pride in at long last being reunited with china , and with a happy confidence in finally being masters of our own home .
those are feelings that people in malaysia and across most of the region can appreciate .
$number years ago , most were colonies .
with hong kong 's return to china this year , and macau 's return $date , $number years of colonial history in asia is finally at an end .
most of the countries in this region , after gaining their independence , have created a level of prosperity , liberty and human dignity for their people that few would have dreamed of a generation ago .
today , asia is taking its place on the world stage , ready to work with all nations to shape our common destiny .
just look at these figures .
ten years ago , the combined gdp for the $number leading asian economies was us $ $number .
today it stands at over us $ $number . although malaysia 's population has doubled $date , your income per head has been increasing at $number a year , lifting up the quality of life for your citizens .
as with other asian countries , your savings rates are far higher than in america and europe .
by early in the next century the asian economies together will exceed the european union or nafta in absolute size .
trade flows within the asian region have been growing fast as well .
$date , trade between the main economies within our region amounted to us $ $number , today it stands at over us $ $number .
we have all benefited greatly from that , and have contributed to each other 's development by these exchanges .
asian countries have very different histories , cultures and religions not just from the rest of the world but from each other . they certainly have different priorities . but through co - operation , accommodation and respect for each other 's way of life , we have improved over the past few decades the livelihood of our citizens and built societies in which we can all take pride .
this is clearly shows that we don 't all have to adopt similar beliefs and cultures in order to work together to mutual benefit .
our unique experiences have much to contribute to the development of the global community of the $number century .
our voice needs to be heard , and i am glad that leaders in this region are speaking out clearly on this issue .
it is my duty to speak out clearly for hong kong .
let me tell you that it is business as usual in hong kong .
since $date our three branches of government - the executive , the legislature and the judiciary - have all been functioning normally .
there have been no changes to the lifestyle to which we have become accustomed .
our economy continues to forge ahead .
hong kong people are running hong kong .
now , i would like to set out for you the reasons we have for confidence in our future as a special administrative region of china .
$number ground for our confidence is in china : in the commitments that china has made to us , in the prospects she holds out for us , and in the determination and capabilities of her leaders to achieve their vision for a better society in the next century .
it is always well to remember that the concept of " one country , two systems " was china 's idea , not anyone else 's .
this concept was created by men who were mindful of the fundamental interests of china as a nation and of the chinese as a people . chinese leaders are completely committed to making " one country , two systems " work .
they trust hong kong people to administer hong kong ; they have pledged their full support for us .
from my own experience over the last eight months i can tell you that the central government has given us a free hand in dealing with our own internal affairs and has given us every encouragement to succeed .
this is not surprising , because essentially hong kong and the mainland have the same long - term interests .
time and again , chinese leaders have emphasized the importance of maintaining hong kong 's stability and prosperity so that we can contribute to the modernization of the whole country .
our economic interests have long been intertwined , and i firmly believe that if hong kong succeeds , china will benefit .
and if china is prosperous , hong kong will benefit even more .
this complementary relationship provides a solid foundation on which " one country , two systems " will work .
the basic law , the constitutional framework for the hong kong special administrative region , has given us a high degree of autonomy under the " one county , two systems " concept .
the basic law guarantees that hong kong will maintain its existing legal , social , and economic systems . it allows us to keep the existing freedoms and life style of our people ; it protects the right of private ownership ; retains for hong kong a separate currency and customs territory ; and it reaffirms our long established policies of prudent financial management and low taxation .
these guarantees are firm and legally binding .
china has undergone dramatic changes since she opened up to the outside world $date .
the economy has grown at a remarkable rate , averaging almost $number per cent per annum .
everyone who has visited china can feel the sense of vigour and see the great change that is taking place .
today the leaders of china have a global outlook .
they have a clear vision of the future and have the ability and the understanding needed to steer china successfully into $date .
their ability and understanding make us confident in the exercise of a high degree of autonomy for hong kong under the " one country , two systems " concept .
apart from our trust in china , we have much else to base our confidence on .
there is the solid foundation we have in the rule of law . this underpins our free market , the work of our civil service and the quality of our community .
we will maintain this legacy .
the rule of law has kept our society open , fair and law abiding .
our excellent police force and vigorous anti - corruption body have cracked down hard on anyone breaking the law .
we will maintain that effective enforcement and will uphold the principle that everyone , chief executive included , is subject to the law .
hong kong is blessed with a superb civil service , committed to the very highest standards of public administration .
thanks to their careful management , we have a very solid fiscal position , steady revenues , well controlled expenditure and extremely strong financial reserves .
to that we add a fundamentally strong economic position , with growth of around $number per cent expected this year .
ample reserves are a comfort , but my greatest reason for confidence is the indomitable spirit of the people of hong kong themselves .
what they have achieved within my lifetime is staggering .
what we still hope to achieve together is no less ambitious .
we have experienced entrepreneurs and investors and an increasingly well educated , forward looking pool of young people , giving us the talent and the drive to keep on succeeding in whatever the world holds for us .
hong kong 's prosperity is built on the firm foundations of a free market , free enterprise and free trade , maximum competition and a level playing field .
none of these will change under my administration .
my government will continue to provide a stable economic environment , facilitating , not directing the market so that the private sector can maximise its contribution and make the best use of the opportunities available .
we will continue to encourage foreign investments and attract multi - national corporations to come to hong kong .
we will provide a favourable investment climate and the necessary infrastructure to support their operations in hong kong .
as well as our own strength and china 's backing we also have the benefit of tremendous international interest and goodwill towards hong kong , not least , here in malaysia .
hong kong and malaysia are close associates .
in trade you were our $number largest partner last year , with $number ringgits worth of goods and services exchanged between us , up $number odd per cent $number , and hong kong has $number ringgits of direct investment here .
as well as trade we have established friendships over many years and through many channels , not least by educational exchange - the main hall of our oldest university is named after a malaysian businessman who helped the reconstruction of the university after the last war .
for the future , i trust that we can build on every aspect of our partnership .
together we stand in the midst of the most hopeful and vigorous economic area in the world . our potential is breathtaking - like the petronas towers that soar above this great city of kuala lumpur .
in those towers , you have made a statement about your aspirations .
in your plans for the multi - media super corridor , you have set out how those aspirations are going to be met , providing the environment that will bring the benefits of the new information age to your citizens and helping you to be a leading player in that new age .
the present difficulties in regional financial and stock markets have come as quite a blow .
i understand the frustration caused by the set - back to treasured hopes and plans .
if it is any consolation , we have had some hard times in hong kong too , and have had to learn some painful lessons , particularly $date when the capitalization of our stock market halved almost overnight .
let me share with you the thought that we should not be unduly troubled by these difficulties .
yes there are things we need to learn , but remember the underlying process that is going on and will not stop .
malaysia is rich in human and natural resources .
the underlying economy is strong and your leaders have a clear direction for your future development .
the fact is that malaysia , like asia , has found its feet in the world .
we are building better lives for all our citizens , and malaysia has been , and continues to be , a leader in that process .
i have come here to see for myself what you are achieving , and to talk with your prime minister and others about how we may deepen our partnership both with malaysia and in the asean region .
our relationship is already well - entrenched and expanding .
our trade with asean nations rose by an average of $number per cent per annum $number .
last year , the asean economies were our $number largest trading partners .
trade with malaysia has risen markedly $date - an average of $number per cent per annum - and to the extent that you are now our $number largest trading partner .
in all of these endeavours we have served us the major gateway for your trade with china .
and we want to continue to develop that role .
i want to have a look at what you are doing in response to common challenges and opportunities that we face , particularly in the extraordinary new environment that information technology has the potential to create for us .
your great vision of the multi - media super corridor has helped everyone to see that information technology is far more than a new high - tech industry , far more than a quick way of sharing information . it has the capacity to change whole patterns of communication and civil relationships , of education , of health care , of commerce , of almost any other aspect of human activity .
awakening people 's imagination to the potential of these new tools and giving them the skills to use them are going to be fundamental to the success of our societies in the next century .
in hong kong we have reason to be proud of our achievements in the past $number years , but we have to be alert to challenges which lie ahead .
we face keen competition in trade and services , and our competitiveness is threatened by persistently high inflation .
we have to face challenges arising from a growing and ageing population , meet the pressing demand for more and better housing , and deal with employment dislocation due to restructuring of the economy .
to keep our economy and society flourishing , we need to take well considered and effective steps to respond to new conditions .
my government 's foremost task is to enhance hong kong 's economic vitality and sustain the economic growth that provides the means to improve the livelihood of the people of hong kong .
we aim to create a business environment and provide an educated , well trained workforce , that will promote the services sector and the development of value - added and high technology industries .
as our world moves rapidly into the information era , we will encourage growth in our information industry and infrastructure , and nurture expertise in this area , so that hong kong , like malaysia , will remain at the forefront of the new age .
we will also carry on with the development of our institutions of government to the timetable laid down in our constitution , the basic law .
we are doing that not because we have been told to by people in long established democracies , but because we know how important it is to hong kong .
i have been chosen as $number chinese chief executive of hong kong for a five year term by an election committee composed wholly of hong kong people , drawn from every walk of life .
$date , my successor will be chosen by a similar committee of hong kong people .
in may next year , elections for $number full legislative council will be held .
members of every political party will be welcome to take part , every adult permanent resident eligible to vote .
those elected will serve for two years .
in the year $number , $number legislative council will be elected for a four year term , and $date , for $number election , half the seats will be returned by direct elections .
the framework for electing the chief executive and the legislature that i have described has been firmly fixed in the basic law .
after $number years , the basic law again makes clear that it is for hong kong people to decide for themselves how to develop the executive and legislative elections , with the ultimate aim of universal suffrage .
it is a document drawn up for hong kong 's condition , providing stability in the organisation of our government while maintaining the steady evolution of democratic institutions .
there is much that needs to be done in hong kong , but we have a solid foundation upon which we can build our future , and we have the commitment and support of our sovereign to make " one country , two systems " a success .
all of us in hong kong are confident that as we move into $date we can write wonderfully new and successful chapters in the history of our city .
it is not just in hong kong that history is being made in asia .
i see every reason for people throughout this region to take confidence for the future .
occasional setbacks notwithstanding , the benefits of a competitive , open approach in business and commerce have been realised around the region , and hong kong and malaysia now stand at the centre of most rapidly growing economic region on earth .
there is every prospect that we will see a sustained , substantial rise in the quality of life for our citizens and in our standing within the world economic order in the decades ahead .
we look forward to working with you to achieve that .
condolence to families of victims in plane crash the sar government has expressed condolence to the families of four hong kong residents killed in the plane crash in cambodia yesterday ( wednesday ) .
" we have been maintaining close liaison with the office of the commissioner of the ministry of foreign affairs of the people 's republic of china in hong kong over this incident , " a government spokesman said today ( thursday ) .
" the chinese embassy in phnom penh will render appropriate assistance to the victims who are hong kong residents and their families , " he said .
the spokesman said that the immigration department had been in contact with the consulate general of cambodia and had been liaising closely with the airline concerned in order to contact the families of the victims to see if any practical assistance was required .
cfa ( amendment ) ( no.
$number ) bill to be gazetted a bill which seeks to amend the hong kong court of final appeal ordinance to improve provisions in respect of the constitution of the appeal committee to hear and determine applications for leave to appeal will be gazetted tomorrow ( friday ) .
under the existing ordinance , an appeal committee shall consist of either the chief justice and two permanent judges nominated by the chief justice , or three permanent judges nominated by the chief justice .
to avoid bias by pre - determination , the hong kong court of final appeal ( amendment ) ( no.3 ) bill $number proposes that a judge shall not sit as a member of an appeal committee on the hearing and determination of any application relating to matters in which he may have been previously involved in a lower court .
" as the proposed exclusion from the appeal committee of judges who have had a previous involvement with the case may mean that there are insufficient judges to sit on the committee , we propose an additional amendment to provide that where a sufficient number of permanent judges is not available for any cause to sit on the committee , the chief justice shall nominate a non - permanent hong kong judge to sit in place of a permanent judge , " a government spokesman said .
a technical amendment to make it clear that the powers of an appeal committee include power to certify that a point of law of great and general importance is involved is also proposed .
" such a certificate is a prerequisite to the grant of leave to appeal in criminal cases , " he added .
hk continues to practise free trade policy hong kong will continue to practise unwaveringly the free trade policy and pursue vigorously the ultimate goal of global free trade in the multilateral and regional trade forums , the director - general of trade , mr alan lai , said on $date ( vancouver time ) .
he said : " we will continue to be vigilant and defend robustly our own rights , as well as any wider systemic implications for international trade , against actions by trading partners that are not justified or inconsistent with the agreed rules and obligations . "
mr lai was addressing a luncheon in vancouver , canada hosted by david see - chai lam centre for international communications , the asia pacific foundation of canada and the hong kong / canada business association .
" against our free trade philosophy , the prime objectives of hong kong for the international trade forums are two - fold : $number , to further the benefits of trade liberalisation with a view to achieving the global free trade and $number , to maintain a rule - based multilateral trading system which is relevant and responsive to the needs of the modern business world , " he said .
mr lai said hong kong 's efforts to bring about a world of free and open markets are concentrated in two forums namely , the world trade organisation (wto) and the asia - pacific economic cooperation (apec) .
" hong kong had been in the forefront of multilateral trade liberalisation efforts during the days of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) .
" the successive rounds of trade negotiations conducted under previously the gatt and now the wto have resulted in substantial elimination of tariffs and non - tariffs barriers , " mr lai said .
examples of success include : * a $number - year integration programme to phase out the most intractable quantitative restrictions on textiles and clothing products $date ; * a multilateral agreement to open up the global basic telecommunications markets as from $date ; and * the information technology agreement to eliminate tariffs on information technology products as from $date .
" we look forward to a successful conclusion of the financial services negotiations scheduled for completion this $date , " mr lai added .
in addition to the multilateral trading system , mr lai noted that hong kong also sought to advance its goal of progressive global trade liberalisation through the open regional forum of apec .
all $number member economies of apec have vowed to achieve the goal of free and open trade and investment $date ( for industrialised member economies ) and $number ( for developing member economies ) .
" they have all drawn up their individual action plans , setting out what actions they would take to achieve this goal .
" we have now entered the implementation stage and all member economies will continue to make further improvements to the plans , " he said .
" in addition , apec member economies have agreed to identify sectors where early voluntary liberalisation would have a positive impact on trade , investment and economic growth in individual apec economies as well as in the region .
" so far , member economies have put forward some $number sectoral liberalisation proposals , " mr lai said .
as the senior official of the hong kong special administrative region attending the senior official meeting in st john 's , newfoundland , canada , a week ago , mr lai was encouraged by the large number of proposals and the useful discussions on how to take them forward .
" i am hopeful of a positive and tangible package of liberalisation measures to be presented to our economic leaders when they meet in vancouver in $date , " mr lai added .
mr lai said both the wto and apec were starting to reflect on their roles $date .
" $number will be an important year for the multilateral trading system - the gatt will be celebrating its $number anniversary in may next year .
" wto contracting parties should consider how to take forward the programme of reviews and negotiations mandated in the built - in agenda for the uruguay round agreements , including whether a new round should be launched .
" for apec , the wto work programme offers valuable opportunities for it to contribute to improving the environment for conducting world trade .
" this will be one of the important issues to be considered at the apec ministerial and economic leaders meetings this $date , " mr lai said .
revision of trade marks fees the government will gazette tomorrow ( friday ) the trade marks ( amendment ) rules $number , under which fees prescribed for the registration of trade marks and provision of related services will be revised upwards by $number per cent .
a spokesman for the trade and industry bureau said : " the trade marks fees were last revised in $date .
in line with government policy that fees should in general be set at levels sufficient to recover the full cost of providing the services , we intend to revise the fees to take into account cost increases over the past three years . "
" the proposed fee increases will have no significant implications on the operating costs of the businesses concerned or on the consumer price index ( a ) . the general public will not be affected , " the spokesman added .
the new fees will come into effect on $date .
enhanced management of shipments of dangerous goods the marine department has recently developed a computer database dangerous goods information system ( dgis ) to enhance the management of shipments of dangerous goods by ocean - going vessels and local craft .
a spokesman for the marine department said today ( thursday ) : " with the establishment of dgis , shipping agents can now have more choices and convenience when submitting their dangerous goods ( dg ) manifests .
" dg manifests can be submitted in three ways , namely by hard copy , by diskettes and via internet , " he added .
$number method is to submit hard copy of dg manifests by hand but this is restricted to office hours . alternatively , shipping agents may submit their dg manifests by diskettes .
it is possible for the shipping companies to convert soft data received from shippers and save the required information into diskettes for submission to the marine department .
$number means for dg shipping agents to submit dg manifests is through internet services .
however , this service is restricted to registered dg shipping companies for security reason .
interested parties may obtain more information of the department 's dgis by visiting the marine department homepage web site : http://www.info.gov.hk/mardep end
applications invited for students ' loan fund students who are in financial need can now apply for financial assistance for the $number school year under the sing tao foundation students ' loan fund .
a spokesman for the student financial assistance agency today ( thursday ) said that priority would be given to those who were near completion of their studies .
" students with financial needs studying at the seven university grants committee (ugc) - funded tertiary institutions may approach the student affairs / scholarship and financial aid section of their respective institutions for further details and deadline for application , " he said .
for students studying at secondary four to secondary seven classes , technical institutes and the hong kong shue yan college , the sing tao foundation students ' loan fund provides interest - free emergency loans to those facing sudden adverse family circumstances during their courses of studies . " these students should inform their school principals who would apply on their behalf .
however , in view of the limited budget , school principals are advised to contact the secretariat of the joint selection committee of the hong kong rotary club students ' loan fund and the sing tao foundation students ' loan fund at $number $number to clarify the availability of funds before forwarding their submission , " the spokesman said .
" priority will be given to those applicants who will be graduated next year and there is no deadline for application , " the spokesman said , adding that further details could be obtained from the student affairs / scholarship and financial aid section of the respective institutions .
all the above loans are made on yearly basis .
recipients of the $number school year who wish to apply for further loans for the $number school year must submit new application .
the spokesman noted that all applications / nominations for assistance would be considered by the joint selection committee of the hong kong rotary club students ' loan fund and the sing tao foundation students ' loan fund . " successful loan recipients will be required to enter into a formal undertaking to repay their loans by installments of at least $number per cent of their monthly salary following the completion of their studies . the loans will then be paid direct into their personal accounts with a local bank , " he said .
additional information may be obtained from the secretary of the joint selection committee of the hong kong rotary club students ' loan fund and the sing tao foundation students ' loan fund at $number floor , national mutual centre , $number gloucester road , wan chai , hong kong ( tel no : $number $number ) .
hong kong and singapore to scale new heights say ce hong kong and singapore are set to scale new heights of achievement in the $number century , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , has today ( friday ) told singapore 's business community .
the chief executive told the chinese chamber of commerce of singapore that there was 'plenty of room for both of us ' in the rapidly expanding asian economies .
" hong kong and singapore have achieved a great deal over the past $number years . we have done that despite being very different places with different approaches , " mr tung said in his $number keynote address in singapore since becoming chief executive .
" but our differences are a stimulus to thought : indeed , we may often learn from each other .
in many ways we are , and will remain , competitors but how much duller and more difficult it would be for both of us if there were only one point like us in asia .
" we don 't have to worry about competition : there is plenty of room in the region for both of us .
the benefits of a competitive , open approach in business and commerce have been realised all around us , and our two cities now stand at the centre of the most rapidly growing economic region on earth .
" despite the recent setbacks , the bottom line is this : ten years ago , the total gdp of the ten leading regional economies was us $ $number , today it is over us $ $number .
" china and asean countries will continue to develop , and there is every prospect that we will see a substantial rise in the quality of life for our citizens in the decades ahead , combined with a substantial increases in the opportunities for business and commerce that we can both enjoy .
" i know , for both hong kong and singapore , the focus will be on building our cities into centres of excellence .
i am confident both of us will scale new heights in achievement in the $number century . "
mr tung said hong kong and singapore were often seen as rivals , competing in many areas , but actually gained much from each other .
he said singapore had invested us $ $number in hong kong and that there were around $number singaporean companies based in hong kong . singapore was home to $number hong kong company offices .
mr tung said it was a great honour for him to address the chinese chamber of commerce as $number chief executive of hong kong .
he told the business leaders there was great confidence that the future in hong kong would be even better 'for our children and grandchildren ' .
mr tung said there were several reasons for confidence in the future of hong kong which , like singapore , had its heart in asia but embraces the world .
one reason was that china 's leaders were fully committed to making the concept of 'one country , two systems ' work .
" they have complete faith in the ability of hong kong people in administering hong kong ; and have pledged their full support for us , " he said .
another reason was that hong kong and the mainland shared long - term interests and 'if hong kong succeeds china will benefit and if china is prosperous , hong kong will be even better ' .
he said china 's leaders had a 'global outlook ' and a clear vision of the future to steer china forward into the $number century .
the guarantees of a high degree of autonomy contained in the basic law , free - market policies , prudent fiscal management , the rule of law , a level playing field , a highly - efficient civil service , and vigorous anti - corruption action were also major factors in hong kong 's continued success .
mr tung said his priorities as chief executive would include education , housing and care for the elderly .
" one of my reasons for coming to singapore so soon is to have a look at what you are doing in response to common challenges that we face , " he said .
" seeing what others are doing helps us to look critically at our own policies .
in many ways our cities are complimentary and we face many similar challenges .
we give each other a much better yardstick for comparison than any of our neighbours . "
ce 's speech *** the following is the speech by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , at the singapore chinese chamber of commerce luncheon today ( friday ) : mr tay , excellencies , distinguished guests , ladies and gentlemen , it is a great honour to stand here today , before the chinese chamber of commerce of singapore , as $number chief executive of hong kong .
$date was a day to which we in hong kong had looked forward with pride and confidence .
pride to at last be reunited with china , and to become masters of our own destiny . confidence that we can and will make our city an even better place for our children and grandchildren .
$date is a day which chinese people around the world can remember with a sense of pride .
it is a feeling that most people in singapore and this region can share and understand .
$number years ago , most of the countries in asia were colonies .
with the return of hong kong to china $date and macau $date , $number years of colonial history in asia are finally at an end .
most of the countries in this region , having gained independence , have achieved a level of prosperity , liberty and human dignity for their people that few would dare to have dreamed a generation before : successes achieved by the vision and dedication of the leaders , the hard work and sacrifices of the people .
progress was also made possible by the open trading practices of the west , that allowed the free flow of capital , goods and information , and by the relative peace and stability that has prevailed since the end of $number world war .
$number years later , asia is a different place .
after our shared colonial history and our outstanding achievements in the recent past , we are ready to take a more constructive role on the world stage , and together with all other nations , shape our common destiny $date .
already the gdp of the asian economies is nearly on a par with europe 's and nafta 's .
asia 's voices need to be heard .
our history , our culture and our priorities are different from those of america or europe , but our unique experiences and societies have much contribute to the development of the global community in the next century .
in this respect , i am glad leaders in this region has been speaking out loudly and clearly on this issue .
the recent turmoil in southeast asian financial and stock markets has come as a blow to many hopes in the region .
this is a deep frustration felt by all .
and hong kong has not escaped the speculative pressures .
we can burn the currency speculator , but the investor in need of cash to cover positions elsewhere has turned to our highly - liquid market to find it . and all our markets have suffered as overseas fund managers precipitately change their weightings in this region without taking time to weigh up the fundamentals .
i trust that the right lessons will be learned .
we should not lose sight of the fact that the opening up of our economies and markets has brought great benefits , but it is important to remember that the process does mean becoming open , as well , to pressures from outside , pressures that can expose internal weaknesses .
hong kong learned its lesson the hard way a decade ago when we saw our stock market collapse .
some $number of our market capitalisation disappeared almost overnight .
we learned , as a leading financial centre in asia , that the proper response to these pressures is to regulate properly .
our experience is that the risks of the open market can be managed by making the market operate as transparently and efficiently as possible , by maintaining financial discipline in the public sector , and by ensuring that financial institutions manage their investments and risks properly .
the fundamentals of the asian economies are good .
therefore we should not lose heart .
i am sure that we will soon be back on the path to prosperity .
but for now , i 'd like to focus on hong kong .
today , as an asian leader of a community that , like singapore , has its heart in asia but embraces the world , i would like to talk to you about the grounds we have for confidence in our future ; about the vision that we have for our city ; and about the relationships we seek to build with our asian partners .
$number ground for our confidence is in china herself : in our understanding of what china is trying to achieve , of her ability to do so , and of her commitment to hong kong .
$number , we must remember that the concept of " one country , two systems " was not the brainchild of hong kong or london , but of china .
it was devised by men who had in mind the fundamental interests of china as a nation and of the chinese as a people .
today 's chinese leaders are fully committed to making " one country , two systems " work .
they have complete faith in the ability of hong kong people in administering hong kong ; and have pledged their full support for us .
i can testify to this commitment from my experience over the past eight months .
the central government has given us a free hand in dealing with our own affairs and has demonstrated flexibility , understanding , co - operation and accommodation .
$number , hong kong and the mainland have the same long - term interest .
time and again , chinese leaders have emphasised the importance of maintaining the stability and prosperity of hong kong and the contribution which we can make to the modernisation of the whole country .
there is every reason for china to want hong kong to succeed .
the economic interests of hong kong and china are intertwined .
i firmly believe that if hong kong succeeds , china will benefit . and if china is prosperous , hong kong will benefit even more .
this complementary relationship provides a solid foundation on which " one country , two systems " will work .
$number , the promise of high degree of autonomy under " one country , two systems " is firmly embedded in the basic law , which is the constitutional framework for the hong kong special administrative region .
the basic law guarantees the continuity of our existing legal , social , and economic systems ; preserves the existing freedoms and lifestyle of our people ; protects the right of private ownership ; maintains a separate currency and customs territory ; and it reaffirms the policies of prudent financial management and low taxation .
these guarantees are firm and legally binding .
$number , china has undergone dramatic changes since she opened up to the outside world $date .
the economy has grown at a remarkable rate , averaging near to $number per annum . the vitality and energy in china today is there for all to see .
furthermore , today 's leaders in china have a global outlook .
they have a clear vision of the future and has the ability and the acumen to steer china forward into the $number century .
it is this ability and acumen that will ensure the implementation of " one country , two systems " and that assures us about their commitment to the continuity of our existing systems and of a high degree of autonomy for hong kong .
to me and to my administration falls the responsibility of leading hong kong to scale new heights .
apart from our trust in china , we have much else to base our confidence on .
$number of all , there is the solid foundation we have in our fiscal management , our civil service and , fundamentally , in the rule of law .
the strength of our fiscal management has been shown in the last few weeks .
the asian wall street journal has identified the key thing .
it isn 't just a matter of having large reserves , although that is important . what matters for us , as for singapore , is a dependable record of prudent financial management and the quality of our regulation .
on top of that , the economic development in hong kong remain extremely strong . we expect gdp growth this year of around $number .
inflation continues to decline , even though labour market conditions remain tight .
next year , our new airport opens , greatly improving our quality as an aviation and service hub , and we are following it up with a massive programme of rail and other infrastructure development to further improve our efficiency and productivity .
providing consistent financial management , high quality regulation and forward looking infrastructure planning is only part of what hong kong 's civil service provides .
overall , it is a model for open , accountable , forward looking public administration , headed by people of the very highest calibre .
anywhere would count themselves fortunate to have them : i can assure you that i am keeping them .
maintaining the quality of the civil service is vital to the confidence that we in hong kong and our partners overseas have in our prospects .
the rule of law underpins our free market , the work of our civil service and the quality of our community .
we will maintain our legal system , grounded , like singapore 's , in the common law .
the rule of law has kept our society open , fair and law abiding .
a good police force and vigorous anti - corruption body have cracked down hard on anyone breaking the law .
we will maintain that effective enforcement and will maintain the principle that no one , chief executive included , is above the law .
alongside all specific reasons , my confidence in hong kong 's future is grounded in the indomitable spirit of the people of hong kong .
what they have achieved within my lifetime is staggering .
what we still hope to achieve together is no less ambitious .
in our experienced entrepreneurs and investors , and in the children from our squatter homes and public housing estates who go on to technical colleges or universities , we have the talent and the drive to keep on succeeding in whatever the world holds for us .
hong kong 's prosperity is built on the firm foundation of a free market , free enterprise and free trade , maximum competition and a level playing field .
none of these will change under my administration .
we will continue to provide a stable economic environment , playing a supporting and facilitating role , in which the private sector can maximise its contribution and make best use of the opportunities available .
like singapore , we will remain resolutely international in outlook , welcoming foreign investment and the operation of multi - national firms , and working in the wto and in apec to promote greater integration in the global economy .
adding to our own strengths and china 's support and backing there is tremendous international interest and goodwill towards hong kong .
our two cities are often seen as rivals .
but think how much we gain from each other .
you are our $number largest trading partner - we are your $number . $number of your trade with china passes through our port or airport .
we are your $number most important destination for investment , with over us $ $number worth placed in our economy . around $number singaporean companies have bases in hong kong , while $number hong kong companies have registered offices here in singapore .
the exchanges are not just in trade and investment .
about $number of our citizens visited singapore last year , while $number of yours came to see us .
around $number singaporeans are resident in hong kong , about the same number of hong kong persons living in singapore .
we even have a singapore international school contributing to the quality and diversity of our education system .
one of my reasons for coming to singapore so soon is to have a look at what you are doing in response to common challenges that we face . i am particularly interested in education and in housing .
i hope this visit will help me to reflect further on our approach on these two subjects in hong kong .
i know that you keep a similar eye on what is going on in hong kong , and i 'd like to share with you my thoughts about where hong kong is heading , and what our priorities are for the next few years .
there is no doubt that hong kong has reason to be proud of our achievement over the past $number years , but we have to be alert to challenges which lie ahead .
we face keen competition in trade and services , and our competitiveness is threatened by persistent high inflation .
we have to meet the challenges arising from a growing and ageing population , satisfy the pressing demand for more and better housing , and deal with employment dislocation due to restructuring of the economy .
maintaining prosperity demands constant , carefully prepared change to respond to new conditions .
our foremost task is to enhance hong kong 's economic vitality and to sustain economic growth .
the creation of wealth gives the hope and the means to improve the livelihood of the people of hong kong .
my government will create a business environment and provide an educated and well - trained workforce that will promote the services sector and the development of value - added and high technology industries .
as the world moves rapidly into the information era , we will encourage our information industry and infrastructure , and nurture expertise in this area , so that hong kong will remain at the forefront of the new age .
education is the key to the future of hong kong .
it gives opportunities to each individual , and gives to the community the abilities required for further economic development .
we aim to give every child in hong kong a modern , well - balanced education of the highest quality , to extend opportunities for lifetime learning and retraining , and we trust that hong kong may become a centre of excellence in education in asia .
owning one 's own home is an aspiration for many in hong kong .
ownership is crucial for personal security and social stability . housing costs also have a strong bearing on the economic vitality of hong kong .
the crux of our present problem is inadequate supply of land , causing prices to soar and creating opportunities for speculators .
we will be speeding up reclamation and land formation over the next $number years ; extending our mass transit system and other infrastructure to support greater development ; and increasing substantially the production of housing units . we will increase overall housing supply at a target rate of not less than $number flats a year , and aim to achieve a home ownership rate of $number in ten years .
we are paying particular attention to the rising proportion of our population who are elderly .
today 's senior citizens have built the hong kong we enjoy .
they deserve respect and care .
my administration has set up a " commission for the elderly " and is developing a comprehensive policy to provide them with a sense of security , a sense of belonging and a sense of worthiness .
i have been chosen as $number chinese chief executive of hong kong for a five - year term by an election committee composed wholly of hong kong people , drawn from every walk of life .
$date , my successor will be chosen by a similar committee of hong kong people .
in may next year , elections for $number full legislative council will be held .
members of every political party will be welcome to take part ; every adult permanent resident will be eligible to vote .
those elected will serve for two years .
in the year $number , $number legislative council will be elected for a four - year term , and $date , for $number election , half the seats will be returned by direct elections .
the framework for electing the chief executive and the legislature that i have described has been firmly fixed in the basic law .
after ten years , the basic law again makes clear that it is for hong kong people to decide for themselves how to develop the executive and legislative elections , with the ultimate aim of universal suffrage .
it is a document drawn up for hong kong 's condition , providing stability in the organisation of our government while maintaining the steady evolution of democratic institutions .
we have a solid foundation and a clear programme upon which we can build our future . we have the commitment and support of our sovereign to make " one country , two systems " a success .
all of us in hong kong are confident as we move into the $number century .
this year , after netting off emigration , we expect $number people to come back from overseas to live and work in hong kong , higher than the balance of $number last year .
they are coming back because they feel the pride and sense the opportunities .
they want to take part in the making of history .
what better testimony to our level of confidence . singapore , too , is a city with much to take pride , much to look forward to .
from the uncertainties of the independence years , thanks to the vision and determination of your leaders , the strength of co - operation among your peoples and your hard work you have built a flourishing community .
your gdp per capita is among the highest in the world ; the beauty of your city is justly admired , you are a catalyst for growth in our region .
this is an extraordinary achievement in which all who have contributed can take great pride , for which all of you deserve much credit .
i 've come to singapore to see for myself what you have achieved .
i am particularly interested in the fields of education and of housing , which , as i have said , are key concerns for my administration .
seeing what others are doing helps us to look critically at our own policies .
in many ways our cities are complementary and we face many similar challenges .
we give each other a much better yardstick for comparison than any of our neighbours .
both hong kong and singapore have achieved a great deal over the past $number years . we have done that despite being very different places with different approaches .
but our differences are a stimulus to thought : indeed , we may often learn from each other .
in many ways we are and will remain competitors but how much duller and more difficult it would be for both of us if there were only one point like us in asia .
we don 't have to worry about competition : there is plenty of room in the region for both of us .
the benefits of a competitive , open approach in business and commerce have been realised all around us , and our two cities now stand at the centre of the most rapidly growing economic region on earth .
despite the recent setbacks , the bottom line is this : ten years ago , the total gdp of the ten leading regional economies was us $ $number , today it is over us $ $number .
china and asean countries will continue to develop , and there is every prospect that we will see a substantial rise in the quality of life for our citizens in the decades ahead , combined with a substantial increases in the opportunities for business and commerce that we can both enjoy .
i know , for both hong kong and singapore , the focus will be on building our cities into centres of excellence .
i am confident both of us will scale new heights in achievement in the $number century .
$number overseas visit trip 'very successful ' says ce the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( friday ) his $number overseas trip has been 'very useful , constructive and successful ' and he is confident business and political leaders in malaysia and singapore can see it is 'business as usual ' in hong kong .
he believed leaders in singapore and malaysia could see that hong kong was running smoothly and that hong kong 's lifestyle remained unchanged .
mr tung said that of his three - day visit : " i think they were all very happy that the return of hong kong and the sar government for the last two months have been functioning well , functioning smoothly and the one country , two systems foundation is being laid .
in singapore , he wrapped up his visit with a series of in - depth briefings on the 'common challengers ' facing hong kong and the lion city .
major areas of interest were housing , education and information technology .
mr tung also told a luncheon meeting of business leaders there was 'plenty of room ' for both hong kong and singapore in the increasingly important asian economies .
during another full day 's programme , the chief executive visited the chinese high school , the singapore housing and development board (hdb) , and visited the hong kong economic and trade office in singapore .
late this afternoon mr tung held a private meeting with singapore 's senior minister , mr lee kuan yew .
" he is a great statesman whom i respect a great deal , " said mr tung .
" we had some very useful discussions .
he 's obviously happy to see the transition has been smooth and things going on well in hong kong , " said mr tung .
" we also talked about the currency turmoil recently and about the stock market turmoil .
it was a very useful and very helpful discussion . "
on education , mr tung was particularly interested in singapore 's languages policy , which stressed teaching in english and mother tongue mediums .
" as you know the ( hong kong ) government has announced the use of chinese as the teaching medium and we are trying to see how we can make both our english and chinese better and better still for our future generations , " mr tung said .
asked whether he would like to see english continue to be taught in hong kong schools , mr tung replied : " absolutely , because we are an international city , english is very important . but so is chinese . we have got to make both of them very important . "
during a meeting with deputy prime minister and minister for defence dr tony tan , mr tung discussed expanding application of information technology in schools and the wider community .
familiarising singapore 's subsidised rental and purchase housing developments included a visit to two tenants ' homes at the toa payoh precinct as well as discussions on upgrading projects .
housing supply and renovation , the quality of housing , tenant facilities and housing design were among the items discussed .
mr tung said that when he returned to hong kong he would sit down with chief secretary mrs anson chan and other policy secretaries 'to go through some of our thoughts with a view to develop further ideas . '
mr tung returns to hong kong tomorrow ( saturday ) . he leaves for a five - day visit to the united states on monday morning .
ce 's transcript at the end of his visit to singapore the following is the transcript of the remarks by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , to reporters at the end of his visit to singapore today ( friday ) : i am going back to hong kong tomorrow after i think a very useful , constructive and successful visit here in singapore .
while here i met with leaders of this country and at the same time see business and commercial personalities discuss matters of mutual interest .
i think they were all very happy that the return of hong kong and the sar government for the last two months has been functioning well , functioning smoothly , and one country , two systems foundation is being laid .
i had this morning the opportunity to look at singapore 's housing programme , education long - term thinking and all this has been very useful and very helpful to me and when i go back to hong kong i will be sitting down with my colleagues in the government , with anson and other secretaries to go through some of our thoughts with a view to develop further ideas .
it 's been a useful visit .
i also spent some time just now with senior minister lee , lee kuan yew , and had some very useful discussions . he 's obviously happy to see that the transition has been smooth and things going on well in hong kong .
we also talked about the currency turmoil recently and about the stock market turmoil .
ombudsman 's recommendations welcomed in response to media enquiries on the ombudsman 's investigation report on arrangements for closure of schools due to heavy , persistent rain , a spokesman for the education department said today ( friday ) : " we welcome the investigation report and recommendations by the ombudsman to improve the arrangements for the closure of schools due to heavy , persistent rain .
the ombudsman 's understanding of our difficulties in the face of severe and sudden changes of weather conditions is appreciated .
" while some of the ombudsman 's recommendations have in fact been put into effect , the rest will be carefully considered with a view to implementing wherever practicable .
" the safety of students and school staff remains our prime concern in school closure decisions during inclement weather . "
hong kong observatory 's response to ombudsman 's report the hong kong observatory welcomes the direct investigation report released today ( friday ) by the ombudsman on the arrangement for the closure of schools due to heavy persistent rain .
a spokesman for the observatory said : " a review will be undertaken to critically examine the existing rainstorm warning system and to consider the recommendations included in the ombudsman 's report .
" as the implication and impact of any major changes associated with the rainstorm warning system are likely to be far - reaching , the observatory will carefully study the ombudsman 's proposals in detail in conjunction with relevant government departments prior to implementation .
the ombudsman will be kept informed of the progress of the deliberation and consultation process .
" as long as it is scientifically sound and technically feasible , the observatory will seek to upgrade its weather warning service .
to cater for public expectation reflected by the ombudsman 's report , the observatory will make an effort to ensure that suitable adjustments relating to the rainstorm warning system and the corresponding school closure decision will be in place before the rainy season of $number .
task group to improve textile & clothing industry training a task group , set up by the government to identify how best to improve the current training and retraining programmes to ease the labour shortage in the local textile and clothing industry , called its $number meeting today ( friday ) .
chaired by the deputy secretary for education and manpower , mr matthew cheung kin - chung , the working group on training and retraining for the textile and clothing industry comprises a fair cross section of representatives from manufacturers ' associations and workers ' unions of the industry as well as the relevant training bodies and government departments .
at today 's meeting , the working group took stock of the present position on the training and retraining programmes related to the textile and clothing industry and run by the clothing industry training authority (cita) , the vocational training council (vtc) and the employees retraining board (erb) .
a spokesman for the education and manpower bureau said that apart from identifying how best to improve the current training and retraining programmes , the working group was also tasked to facilitate the successful placement of trained and retrained workers in the industry and to monitor the adequacy of the labour supply for the industry .
" it is hoped that the working group will play a useful role in easing the labour shortage in the textile and clothing industry which still accounts for the largest share of employment in the local manufacturing sector .
" in $date , a total of $number workers were employed in the industry $number in the clothing and $number in the textile sectors .
these represented $number per cent of hong kong 's manufacturing work force of $number , " the spokesman added .
the non - government members on the working group comprise representatives from the following organizations : the textile council of hong kong , the cita , the vtc , the erb , the hong kong garment manufacturers association ltd . , the federation of hong kong garment manufacturers , the hong kong woolen & synthetic knitting manufacturers ' association ltd . , the hong kong knitwear exporters & manufacturers association ltd . , the garment - making trade workers union and the hong kong weaving apparel industry employees general union .
the government members include the government economist and representatives from the labour department , the trade department , the industry department , the census and statistics department and the education and manpower bureau .
two lantau link special bus services to cease operation the transport department announces that two lantau link recreational bus services x21 and x31 will cease operation tomorrow ( saturday ) in view of a significant drop in patronage .
other recreational routes x11 and x32 departing from moreton terrace and kwai fong mtr station respectively for lantau link will continue to operate on sundays and public holidays .
the saturday services of route x32 will be cancelled .
speaking on the arrangements today ( friday ) , a spokesman for the department said : " these bus routes were introduced shortly after the opening of lantau link to meet upsurge public demand for a tour of the new highways and bridges .
" such demand dropped significantly in the last two months . "
routes x21 and x31 depart from tai kok tsui and tsuen wan ferry respectively for lantau link in weekends .
the patronage of these two bus routes has dropped by $number as compared with those in may this year .
in $date , these two routes carried an average of $number passengers on sundays and public holidays while the average for may is $number .
" it is not envisaged that the discontinuation of the bus services will cause inconvenience to the public , " the spokesman said .
members of the public can make use of e21 and e31 , which depart from tai kok tsui and tsuen wan ferry respectively for tung chung new town , to visit the lantau link .
" the transport department will closely monitor the traffic situation and conduct monthly review to assess the need of continuing the remaining two special services , " the spokesman added .
revision in immigration department fees fees for various documents and certificates issued by the immigration department will be revised with effect from $date this year , an sar government spokesman announced today ( friday ) .
the fees cover various services provided by the immigration department , such as the issue of visas , re - entry permits , documents of identity , replacement identity cards , and birth , death and marriage certificates .
the spokesman said that the government policy is to set fees based on full - cost recovery so that those receiving the services will pay for them and not the taxpayers .
the fees for issue of visas and permits have been maintained at the existing levels for the past $number years . most of the fees for other services were last increased in $date .
" a recent costing review has shown that the fees for these services are lagging behind and the cost recovery rate is only $number per cent overall , " he said .
fee increases of $number to $number per cent are proposed for the services in this revision , " he added .
the increases in dollar terms are small , mostly ranging from $ $number to $ $number for services under the immigration ordinance and registration of persons ordinance , and mostly below $ $number for services relating to registration of births , deaths and marriages .
details of the fee increases which require the approval of the provisional legislative council by resolution have been submitted to provisional legislative council members for consideration . the secretary for security will move such a resolution on $date .
junction improvement proposed to improve traffic the secretary for transport today ( friday ) proposes to improve the junction of nam long shan road and shum wan road to facilitate better turning movement .
the proposed works involved : * reconstruction of parts of the existing footpaths along nam long shan road and at the junction of nam long shan road and shum wan road ; * construction of footpaths and carriageway at the junction of nam long shan road and shum wan road ; * permanent closure of parts of the existing footpaths along nam long shan road and shum wan road to be turned into carriageway ; * permanent closure of part of the existing carriageway at the junction of nam long shan road and shum wan road to be turned into a traffic island ; and * ancillary works including landscaping works , drainage works , demolition and construction of a section of a fence wall and of a chain link fence .
a notice concerning the proposed road works is published in the government of the hong kong special administrative region gazette today .
the plan and scheme for the proposed works may be inspected during office hours at : * public enquiry service centre , central and western district office , ground floor , harbour building , $number pier road , central , hong kong ; * hong kong south district lands office , southorn centre , $number floor , $number hennessy road , wan chai , hong kong ; * public enquiry service centre , southern district office , shop $number , ground floor , mei fung court , aberdeen centre , $number nam ning street , aberdeen , hong kong .
any person who wishes to object to the works or the use , or both is required to write on or before $date to the secretary for transport , central government offices , east wing , $number floor , lower albert road , hong kong .
road improvement works in tin shui wai the territory development department (tdd) plans to improve some road junctions in tin shui wai development zone and its peripheral areas .
the proposed roadworks will enhance the capacity of the junctions to cope with additional traffic generated from the further development of the new town .
the works involve the widening of carriageways and modifying junction layouts .
ancillary works include formation of light rail transit reserve , construction of bus bays and modification of associated footpaths , cycle tracks , road drainage and planting strips .
the works are scheduled to start in late $number for completion in $number months .
cs on the death of mother teresa following is a statement by the chief secretary for administration , mrs anson chan , on the death of mother teresa : " mother teresa devoted her entire life to god and to the sick and needy of the world .
she was a strong personality of great compassion who brought comfort and relief to $number people including the needy in hong kong .
in my days as director of social welfare , we were all impressed with her sense of purpose and the drive and energy she devoted to setting up the home of love in sham shui po $date .
she was a wonderful role model for us all and she will be greatly missed .
i shall remember her in my prayers .
may god bless and keep her always . "
technology development keeps hong kong competitive : ag fs the development of science and technology has played , and will continue to play , an increasingly important role in ensuring that hong kong remains a competitive manufacturing and services centre in the global market , the acting financial secretary , mr k c kwong , said today ( saturday ) .
" within the framework of a free market , the government has a pro - active industrial support policy aimed at facilitating our overall productivity and international competitiveness , " he said .
" in particular , we are committed to enhancing the development and application of science and technology so that hong kong 's globalised production network will be able to maintain its competitive edge and that hong kong will remain as a leading financial and services centre in the world . "
addressing the $number annual scientific conference organised by the hong kong institution of science , mr kwong said the government had adopted a three - pronged approach to upgrade hong kong 's science and technology capacity .
this approach is $number , provision of suitable physical infrastructural facilities , $number , investment in human resources and $number , support for research and development activities .
on physical infrastructural facilities , mr kwong said the government had set up a number of public organisations to promote the development and application of science and technology in both the manufacturing and services sectors .
such facilities include the hong kong industrial estates corporation which was set up $number years ago to provide formed and serviced land at cost to companies with new and improved technologies and processes which cannot operate in multi - storey factory buildings .
there are now three industrial estates in tai po , yuen long and tseung kwan o and a $number industrial estate at tuen mun is under active planning .
besides , the hong kong industrial technology centre corporation , the hong kong productivity council , the telecommunications technology centre company limited and the hong kong institute of biotechnology were all established to provide infrastructural support to industry .
in his speech mr kwong highlighted that the government was also actively planning for the development of a science park in hong kong .
" by bringing together companies from other economies , researchers in our tertiary institutions and local enterprises with scientific and technological competence , the science park will provide a major impetus for the development of indigenous science and technology - based companies in hong kong , " he said , adding that it would also promote technology transfer by attracting overseas investment and enhance regional co - operation in this area .
turning to investment in human resources , mr kwong said a well - trained and technologically competent workforce was vital for the development of hong kong 's manufacturing and services industries .
" we now have eight degree - awarding tertiary institutions with $number students . among them , $number students are pursuing under - graduate education in science and technology related courses , " mr kwong said ..
" in money terms , in the past three academic years , we have invested more than $ $number in tertiary education , of which about $ $number , or $number per cent , went to the development of science and technology - related teaching and research programmes . "
underpinning the tertiary education sector is the vocational training council which provides a wide range of technical education and industrial training programmes . the council also administers a new technology training scheme which aims to facilitate the adoption of new technologies beneficial to hong kong 's industries . since inception $date , the scheme has provided grants of about $ $number for $number trainees .
" in addition , to encourage individuals to continue to improve themselves , we introduced a specific tax concession $date $number to allow salaries taxpayers to claim a deductible expense fees for training courses attended at approved institutions , " he said .
as an important part of hong kong 's initiative to upgrade its research activities , mr kwong said , the research grants council was established under the aegis of the university grants committee $date to help the tertiary institutions develop their research culture and infrastructure .
" to underline our support for academic research by our tertiary institutions , we increased the earmarked research grants by more than four time from $ $number to $ $number in the $number triennium , and to $ $number in the $number triennium , " mr kwong said .
" as a result of increased investment in research work , we have achieved a significant improvement in the research capacity and output of our tertiary institutions .
furthermore , the research base has expanded and there has been a general move towards larger projects , especially in the medicine and engineering fields . "
mr kwong said while much as academic research played an important role in the discovery and development in science and technology , it was vital to ensure that hong kong 's economy would be able to benefit from their application and commercialisation .
" the government has therefore set up various funding schemes to provide financial incentives for local industry support organisations and companies to carry out their own research and development programmes , " he said .
examples of these funding schemes are the industrial support fund , the two funding schemes operated by the applied research council , the innovation loan and the early technology business capital loan scheme administered and operated by the hong kong industrial technology centre corporation .
noting that an important ingredient for the promotion of research and development in this area was intellectual property protection , mr kwong said , " we have to ensure that there is a robust regime for the protection of intellectual property rights so that creators and researchers can protect and exploit economically the fruits of their endeavours .
" to achieve this goal , we have recently enacted new legislation in the areas of patents , industrial designs and copyright to ensure that we maintain standards which are in line with the prevailing international standards of intellectual property protection . "
mr kwong concluded his address by emphasising the opportunities for closer co - operation with institutions in mainland china .
" as a special administrative region of china , we are particularly well - placed to take advantage of the opportunities presented by closer cooperation with academic and research institutions in the mainland of china , many of which are at the leading edge in the field of science and technology , " he said .
" we are exploring means to foster greater collaboration with the mainland so that we would be able to leverage on their technological advantages . " i am sure that our industrial and business leaders will see similar collaboration opportunities as an effective means to enhance their competitiveness , " mr kwong added .
address the government formally in cheque payments members of the public were today ( friday ) reminded to formally address the government of the hong kong special administrative region when making payment by cheque .
a government spokesman explained that as from $date , the formal name of the government 's bank accounts has been changed to keep in line with its new title .
cheques previously made payable to " the hong kong government " should from now on be made payable to " the government of the hong kong special administrative region " , or " the government of the hksar " , he said .
" however , during the transitional period , cheques addressed to ' the hong kong government ' or to titles with slight variation from the formal ones will continue to be accepted until further notice , " he said .
" this transitional period will last for a reasonable period of time to allow the public to get accustomed to the new formal titles , " the spokesman added .
notices informing the public of the arrangements have been posted in sub - treasuries .
liberalisation hong kong special administrative region government (hksarg) welcomes the proposal made by the norwegian government to remove all the quantitative restrictions for imports of restrained textiles and clothing products from hong kong by end of $number , a trade department spokesman said today ( monday ) .
under the proposal recently put forward to the department by the norwegian government , exports of woven trousers ( category $number ) and woven bed - linen ( category $number ) from hong kong into norway will not be subject to quantitative restraint as from $date and exports of woven jackets ( category $number ) will also be derestrained from $date .
currently , three categories of textiles products , namely woven jackets , woven trousers and woven bed - linen are subject to annual quantitative limits .
" the early elimination of quantitative restrictions by norway ahead of the world trade organisation (wto) agreement on textiles and clothing (atc) schedule is a welcomed move , contributing to the goal of complete liberalisation of the textiles trade under the atc .
" hksarg fully appreciates the efforts made by norway towards this goal and is delighted to accept norway 's proposal , " the spokesman said .
the proposal by norway is made under paragraph $number , article $number of the atc which provides for the early elimination of quantitative restrictions by a wto member , independent of the integration programme under the atc .
under the atc , members of the wto are committed to liberalising global trade in textiles in stages with the ultimate objective of fully integration of trade in textiles into the general agreement on tariffs and trade by the year $number .
hk 's financial markets vital to motherland : fs the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , said he believed that hong kong 's financial markets would have a even more impressive development and play a even more important role in the motherland 's economic reform in the next century .
he was speaking today ( monday ) at a seminar in chendu on the securities market of hong kong organised by the stock exchange of hong kong and co - organised by the hong kong trade development council and the hong kong securities and futures commission .
mr tsang told his audience that hong kong was an international centre as well as a financing base for mainland enterprises , with a total of $number mainland enterprises listed in hong kong and raising more than $ $number $date .
he said : " hong kong is not only a pluralistic city but also a dynamic one .
those who have visited hong kong would have such an experience .
" hong kong is a city known throughout the world for its fast pace and in our financial market , every $number counts . take our stock market as an example . although its turnover has repeatedly set record highs of late , the automatic trading system of the stock exchange can still maintain the rate of completing automatic matching within $number and the clearing and settlement systems of the stock and futures market as well as the banks still operate properly .
" today hong kong plays a very important role in the financial markets in asia and the world .
in terms of market capitalisation in $date this year , the total market capitalisation of the hong kong stock market exceeds $ $number , $number highest in the world and next only to japan in asia .
" hong kong is also $number largest banking centre . in $date this year , our banking sector 's external liabilities and claims reached us $ $number . of the $number largest banks in the world , $number have business in hong kong .
hong kong has $number licensed banks and $number representative offices of foreign banks from $number countries .
" hong kong is also a major fund management centre in asia . over $number international fund management companies have set up their regional headquarters in hong kong and the total amount of funds managed is close to us $ $number . "
hong kong , mr tsang said , was not only a free economy , but also a place under the rule of law , noting that article $number of the basic law expressly stipulates that the sar government shall provide an appropriate economic and legal environment for the maintenance of the status of hong kong as an international financial centre .
" to achieve this , we have to ensure the fairness , efficiency and global reputation of hong kong 's financial markets through the law and the regulatory and administrative systems . at the same time , we have to encourage the markets to develop new products and new areas of services , " said mr tsang .
the sar government , he added , was also striving to enhance hong kong 's competitiveness in various areas in the region and the world . examples of these measures include allocating resources to improve existing financial infrastructure and to link up various information and operation systems in the financial markets , establishing a $number board market to assist the development of industries in new technology as well as improving the quality of the workforce in the financial sector and various services .
looking into the future , the financial secretary was full of confidence . with a sound and stable economic foundation for the hksar and a favourable environment under the " one country , two systems " concept , coupled with the ever - increasing economic cooperation with the mainland after the reunification with the motherland , he believed that mutual understanding would be promoted and that more opportunity would be created for cooperation for mutual benefits under the basic principle of " one country , two systems " .
he noted that sichuan had in recent years become the driving force in the economic development of the southwestern part of china with the implementation of reforms and the open door policy .
mr tsang said he hoped to facilitate a better understanding of hong kong in the mainland through the seminar , stressing that hong kong was ready to cooperate with sichuan province to promote better and greater developments in the longer term .
sichuan , with its large population , rich resources and excellent geographic environment , has long been known as " the land of abundance " .
as you all know , the chuandong natural gas field , the largest of its kind in china , is in sichuan and numerous rare minerals can be found in this province .
these natural resources have laid a solid foundation for sichuan 's development into a modernized industrial region .
with the implementation of reforms and the open door policy , sichuan , " the land of abundance " , has in recent years become the driving force in the economic development of the southwestern part of china . with the completion of chengdu - chongqing expressway , chengdu - chongqing railway , sichuan - guizhou railway and xiangfan - chongqing railway , a modernized network of land , sea and air transport has been formed . this , in conjunction with the establishment of a mobile phone and information network , has further consolidated sichuan 's key position in china 's political and economic development .
the hong kong special administrative region express our highest respect for the great success achieved by sichuan province . we would also like to stress that we are ready to cooperate with sichuan province to promote better and greater developments in the longer term .
i therefore hope that today 's seminar will enable all of us here to have a better understanding of hong kong .
hong kong is an international financial centre and also a major financing base for mainland enterprises . $date , a total of $number mainland enterprises have been listed in hong kong , raising more than hk $ $number .
most of these enterprises are engaged in manufacturing industry , and some in public utilities , godown and transport industries , etc. for example , chengdu telecommunications cable co . ltd . in sichuan has raised hk $ $number capital in hong kong .
what , then , is the strength of hong kong as an international financial centre and how does its system work ?
those who have visited hong kong would have had such an experience .
hong kong is a city known throughout the world for its fast pace and in our financial market , every $number counts .
take our stock market as an example .
although its turnover has repeatedly set record highs of late , the automatic trading system of the stock exchange can still maintain the rate of completing automatic matching within $number and the clearing and settlement systems of the stock and futures markets as well as the banks still operate properly .
today hong kong plays a very important role in the financial markets in asia and the world .
in terms of market capitalisation in $date this year , the total market capitalisation of the hong kong stock market exceeds hk $ $number , $number highest in the world and next only to japan in asia .
hong kong is also the world 's $number largest banking centre . in $date this year , our banking sector 's external liabilities and claims reached us $ $number . of the $number largest banks in the world , $number have business in hong kong .
hong kong has $number licensed banks and $number representative offices of foreign banks from $number countries .
hong kong is also a major fund management centre in asia . over $number international fund management companies have set up their regional headquarters in hong kong and the total amount of funds managed is close to us $ $number .
hong kong is a free market economy . it is also a place under the rule of law . article $number of the basic law adopted by the national people 's congress expressly stipulates that the government of the hong kong special administrative region shall provide an appropriate economic and legal environment for the maintenance of the status of hong kong as an international financial centre .
to achieve this , we have to ensure the fairness , efficiency and global reputation of hong kong 's financial markets through the law and the regulatory and administrative systems . at the same time , we have to encourage the markets to develop new products and new areas of services . the securities and futures commission , the stock exchange and the futures exchange are our good partners in these two aspects . the exchanges have been constantly developing new market products and expanding the markets to meet the demands of different investors .
the sar government is also striving to enhance hong kong 's competitiveness in various areas in the region and the world .
hong kong will allocate resources to improve its existing financial infrastructure and to link up various information and operation systems in the financial markets , with the aim to enhance the trading and settlement ability of the market system .
we are also actively considering the establishment of a $number board market to assist the development of industries in new technology .
in the meantime , we are committed to promote manpower training which covers basic education , tertiary education as well as professional training . this will continue to improve the quality of the workforce in the financial sector and various services and maintain the momentum of development in the next century .
looking into the future , we are full of confidence .
with a sound and stable economic foundation for the hksar and a favourable environment under the " one country , two systems " concept , coupled with the ever increasing economic cooperation with the mainland after the reunification with the motherland , we will be able to promote our mutual understanding and create more opportunity for cooperation for our mutual benefits under the basic principle of " one country , two systems " .
i strongly believe that in the next century , hong kong 's financial markets will have a even more impressive development , and play a even more important role in the motherland 's economic reform .
statement by the chief justice the following is issued on behalf of the chief justice , the hon mr justice andrew li , in response to the statement made by the lord chancellor , lord irvine of lairg today ( monday ) : " i greatly welcome the statement made by the lord chancellor , lord irvine of lairg , that he has in principle agreed that two serving law lords can be made available to sit on hong kong 's court of final appeal .
" i shall continue discussion with him regarding potential appointees before i put the matter to the judicial officers recommendation commission . the commission will then make recommendations to the chief executive and the constitutional process for their appointment will then follow . "
no scientific and objective method in defining " poverty " in response to media enquiries arising from newspaper reports about a study undertaken by the hong kong social security society , a government spokesman said today ( monday ) that there was no scientific method for drawing a " poverty line " nor was there an objective definition of " poverty " and any such attempt would involve subjective value judgement .
" if the concept of relative poverty is followed , some degree of poverty would always exist , even in the advanced countries , " the spokesman said .
" in linking the so - called poverty line with median household income ( or per capita median household income ) would practically imply that , as an economy grows in affluence with continued increase in income over time , the relative poverty line would automatically be adjusted upwards , and that a poverty group exists even in the wealthiest countries in the world . "
commenting on the claim that the median household income per capita $date was $ $number , and people with income half of this amount or below should be regarded as poor , the spokesman said : " using a ratio of per capita median household income as measure of poverty may not be appropriate , as it ignores the fact that for larger size households , there should be greater 'economies of scale ' in terms of sharing of accommodation and food . "
in all economies , the spokesman said , economic growth is the primary means of generating income increases for the community .
" given hong kong 's continued economic growth over the past decade ( by average of $number per cent in nominal terms or $number in real terms ) , income for every income group has registered substantial gains over the period .
this includes the households in the low income group as well , " he said , adding that the overall median household income in hong kong at current prices increased by $number per cent from $ $number to $ $number over the past decade .
also , the spokesman pointed out , the proportion of households with monthly income exceeding $ $number ( at $number prices ) rose from $number per cent $date to $number per cent $date , while that of households with monthly income less than $ $number fell from around $number per cent to $number per cent over the same period .
the spokesman said the transformation from manufacturing - based to service - oriented economy tends to increase the demand for high pay professional and middle - management jobs , thus lifting the higher end of the income spectrum .
" however , what is important is that hong kong is a free market economy .
there is no barrier or impediment to entry into jobs in different sectors / occupations / professions .
indeed , people in the low income bracket today will not be the same as those five or $number years ago , " the spokesman said .
" very often , $number time job seekers ( young school leavers ) and new immigrants will enter at the bottom and move upwards over time .
everyone through exercise of talent and hard work can raise their income , improve their standard of living and climb up the social ladder over time . "
he emphasized that the long - standing objective of the government was to maintain an overall environment favourable to economic growth , through providing a sound legal and institutional framework , a simple tax system with low tax rate , a stable financial sector , well - developed infrastructure and an efficient government machinery .
" it is inappropriate and often misleading to describe the actual change in households ' well - being without taking into account the various welfare provisions by the government including free - subsidised education service , low cost public housing , free medical care , retraining and other government subvented welfare services all of which contribute to improving the living standard of the disabled , the elderly , the single parents and the low income households , " the spokesman added .
$number submissions received on profits tax review the finance bureau has received a total of $number written submissions on the profits tax review during the six - week consultation period which closed last saturday ( $date ) .
a spokesman for the bureau said more submissions were expected to be received in the next one or two days through the post , adding that a lot of views had also been expressed through the media .
" the views received touched on various aspects of the profits tax system , such as tax rate , depreciation allowance , tax incentives , and double taxation , " he said .
" in $number three weeks of $date , the financial secretary will be meeting provisional legislative council members to solicit their views on the revenue side of the $number budget .
" more views on the profits tax system are expected to be received .
" we would carefully analyse all the views received when we draw up our proposals on profits tax for the $number budget .
in parallel , we would examine our financial position and economic forecasts to assess the feasibility of any proposals made . "
the spokesman added that the proposals on profits tax would be made known when the $number budget was announced in $date next year .
exhibition on job matching services for new arrivals the labour department will stage an exhibition on employment and retraining services for the new arrivals on wednesday ( $date ) .
the exhibition , co - organised with the employees retraining board , will be held from $number am to $number pm at the exhibition venue , $number floor , dragon centre , shamshuipo . members of the public , in particular the new arrivals who are in need of employment and retraining assistance are welcomed to visit it .
the exhibits include display panels introducing the employment services under the job matching programme (jmp) , the job matching centre and the employment and guidance centre for new arrivals as well as the information on the employees retraining scheme .
leaflets and booklets on these services will also be distributed to visitors .
on - the - spot registration service will be provided to job seekers who wish to join the jmp .
vacancies registered under the supplementary labour scheme will also be available . job - seekers who wish to apply for these vacancies can register on the spot .
they may also apply for the retraining courses at the venue .
school - based support scheme grant for schools public sector schools with an intake of new arrival children (nac) from the mainland are invited to apply for the newly introduced school - based support scheme grant ( the grant ) .
a senior education officer , mr li che - cheung , said , " a block grant will be given to public sector schools upon application under the school - based support scheme .
" the scheme aims to strengthen the support for schools with an intake of new arrival children .
" applicant schools will be given a block grant at the rate of $ $number per new arrival child at primary one to six levels and $ $number at secondary one to seven levels , " mr li said .
in order to enable schools to provide timely support services to help nac , the education department is prepared to disburse two advance payments , one in $date and the other in $date , to schools upon application .
heads of schools are requested to make a reasonable and accurate estimate of nac to be admitted on which advance payments are based .
" such advance payment will be adjusted at a later date according to the actual number of nac admitted during the specified period , " mr li said .
schools should note that they can only apply for the grant in respect of those nac who satisfy the following criteria : * the period between the date of entering hong kong and $number day of attending the applicant school is less than one year ; * no previous claim has been made in respect of the child ; and * the child should remain registered as a pupil of the applicant school on the date of confirmation on the actual number of new arrival children admitted .
schools are also required to keep a separate account for the grant to reflect all the income and expenditure chargeable to it , he added .
mr li noted that the grant can be used to conduct supplementary lessons for new arrival children , purchase teaching aids and resource materials and organise orientation , guidance programmes or extra - curricular activities .
other activities can be run provided that the grant is used for the benefit of the new arrival children and that the services should be provided as soon as they are admitted into the school , he added .
school heads who intend to apply for $number advance payment of the grant for the period $date should return complete proforma to the general administration section of the department 's services division , at room $number , wu chung house , $number queen 's road east , wan chai , by mail or by fax number $number $number on or before $date ( friday ) , $number .
late applications will not be accepted .
application form for primary one places available parents who wish to apply for a primary one place in public - sector schools for their children in $date next year under the primary one admission system can obtain application forms from today ( monday ) to $date .
" application for participation in the primary one admission system for school entry in $date was open to all hong kong belonging children who were born on or before $date , except those who were attending primary schools or those who had been allocated a primary one place previously , " senior education officer , mrs pak au tak - chuen , said .
parents of children attending kindergartens may obtain the application form , an information leaflet and explanatory notes on how to complete the application form from their kindergartens , mrs pak said .
for parents of children not attending kindergartens , the form is available at district offices ( public enquiry service centre ) and offices of the education department , she added .
mrs pak stressed that the completed application form together with all the supporting documents should be submitted within school office hours between $date direct to a government or aided primary school in which the parent wished to apply for a discretionary place .
this school might either be within or outside the school net in which the child resided .
parents are strongly advised to select a school in their neighbourhood in order to reduce unnecessary transport problems and to take the " points system " into consideration when selecting the school , mrs pak said .
mrs pak emphasised that only one application form should be submitted in respect of any one child .
" if parents are found to have applied to more than one government or aided school , their applications will be rendered void and no discretionary place will be allocated , " she said .
she also requested parents of children who could not use chinese as a learning medium to seek advice from the school places allocation section ( primary one admission ) on $number floor , $number queen 's road east , wan chai , hong kong before submitting application forms . they may also call $number $number .
she further pointed out that schools receiving too few applications for discretionary places may not be allowed to operate primary one classes .
in such cases , children already secured discretionary places in these schools would have to be subsequently re - allocated to some other schools which had vacancies .
for updated information regarding the different stages of primary one admission procedures , parents are welcome to use the education department 's automatic telephone enquiry service at $number $number .
traffic accident victims awarded $ $number the social welfare department has awarded $ $number from the traffic accident victims assistance (tava) fund to the victims of two recent serious traffic accidents .
death and burial grants totalling $ $number have been paid to the family of a woman killed in the wydndam street 's accident on $date .
one injured woman has been granted $ $number , while nine other applications for the fund are being processed .
meanwhile , three victims of the bus crash at mong kok road on $date have received a total of $ $number as injury grants .
two other applications are being considered . the family of the man who died in the crash was also introduced the fund but has declined assistance .
a spokesman for the department said today ( monday ) that the tava scheme was aimed at providing prompt financial assistance to traffic accident victims or their dependants , regardless of the means of a family or the fault element in the accident .
" beneficiaries under the scheme will retain the right to make claims for legal damages or compensation from other sources in the usual way .
" however , those who receive other damages or compensation relating to the same accident are required to repay the amount of assistance already received from the tava scheme . " but in any case , the amount repaid will not exceed the amount of damages or compensation awarded , " the spokesman said .
enquiries about the scheme may contact the department 's tava section at room $number , $number floor , wu chung house , $number queen 's road east , wan chai , or on $number $number .
corporations invited to join afd 's afforestation scheme private enterprises are invited to work with the government in greening the countryside of hong kong through the corporate afforestation scheme .
the scheme , launched by the agriculture and fisheries department (afd) , is a tree planting and management programme which allows the participating companies to establish corporate woodlands at suitable sites in country parks .
an afd spokesman pointed out that the scheme was aimed at expanding the scope of public participation in tree planting .
" it is a meaningful activity for private enterprises to engage their staff and family members in afforestation work and in making hong kong greener , " said the spokesman .
" through participation in the scheme , about two hectares of woodlands will be established and named after the company to recognise its contribution and commitment to the greening of hong kong . "
the scheme is expected to commence in the tree planting season next year .
each participating company will be required to plant a minimum of $number tree seedlings in $number year , and to take up the management of the woodland in the following three years . the total estimated cost is about $ $number .
afd has identified suitable sites for selection by participating companies and will provide technical advice on afforestation .
the spokesman added that the department had been organising tree planting programmes with public participation in country parks $date , including the popular " community tree planting scheme " and the " forest adoption project " .
enquiries on the scheme can be directed to the department 's senior country parks officer , mr lai ching - wai on $number $number .
tender for the $number issue of $number - year exchange fund notes the hong kong monetary authority announces that the tender for $number issue of $number - year exchange fund notes will be held on monday , $date for settlement on tuesday , $date .
similar to the previous issue , an amount of hk $ $number $number - year notes will be on offer .
in addition to that , another hk $ $number will be held as reserve by the hong kong monetary authority for supply to market makers in the secondary market .
the notes will mature on $date and will carry interest at the rate of $number per annum payable semi - annually in arrears .
members of the public who wish to tender for the notes may do so through any of the market makers or recognized dealers on the published list which can be obtained from the hong kong monetary authority at $number / f , $number garden road , hong kong ( or telephone $number $number ) .
each tender must be for an amount of hk $ $number or integral multiples thereof .
hong kong monetary authority exchange fund note programme tender information _________________________________________________________ tender information for $number issue of $number - year exchange fund notes : issue number : $number tender date and time : monday $date , $time issue and settlement date : tuesday $date amount on offer : hk $ $number plus an additional hk $ $number as reserve stock for the monetary authority maturity : five years maturity date : $date interest rate : $number per annum payable semi - annually in arrears interest payment dates : $date , $number sept $number , $date , $number sept $number , $date , $number sept $number , $date , $number sept $number , $date , $number sept $number tender amount : each tender must be for an amount of hk $ $number or integral multiples thereof .
members of the public who wish to tender for the notes may approach market makers or recognized dealers on the published list other details : please see information memorandum published or approach market makers or recognized dealers end
volume and price statistics of external trade in $date in $date , the volume of hong kong 's re - exports increased by $number over a year earlier , while that of domestic exports increased by $number .
taken together , the volume of total exports increased by $number .
concurrently , the volume of imports increased by $number .
the census and statistics department today ( monday ) released volume and price statistics of external trade for $date .
comparing $number half of $number with a year earlier , the volume of hong kong 's re - exports increased by $number , while the volume of domestic exports decreased by $number .
taken together , the volume of total exports increased by $number .
meanwhile , imports increased by $number in volume .
the growth in volume of trade is derived from the growth in trade value with the effect of price changes discounted .
comparing $date with $date , the prices of re - exports and domestic exports decreased by $number and $number respectively .
import prices also decreased , by $number .
as regards price changes in $number half of $number over the same period last year , the prices of re - exports and domestic exports decreased by $number and $number respectively , while import prices decreased by $number .
price changes are reflected by changes in unit value indices which are compiled based on average unit values or , for certain commodities , specific price data .
the terms of trade index , defined as the ratio of total export price index to import price index , rose by $number in $date over a year earlier , and by $number in $number half of $number over the same period last year .
analysed by end - use category , increases in re - export volume in $date over a year earlier were recorded for all categories , viz . foodstuffs ( $number ) ; capital goods ( $number ) ; raw materials and semi - manufactures ( $number ) ; fuels ( $number ) ; and consumer goods ( $number ) .
over the same period of comparison , increases were recorded in the prices of re - exports of fuels ( $number ) ; and foodstuffs ( $number ) .
on the other hand , re - export prices of capital goods ; raw materials and semi - manufactures ; and consumer goods decreased by $number , $number and $number respectively .
comparing $date with $date , the volume of domestic exports of electronic components ; and watches and clocks recorded notable increases of $number and $number respectively .
on the other hand , the volume of domestic exports of textile made - ups and related articles ; and footwear decreased significantly , by $number and $number respectively .
over the same period of comparison , domestic export prices of metal ores and scrap ; and travel goods , handbags and similar articles showed notable increases of $number and $number respectively .
on the other hand , domestic export prices of electronic components ; and footwear decreased significantly , by $number and $number respectively .
the changes in the value , unit value and volume of imports by end - use category are shown in table $number . the import volume of foodstuffs increased by $number in $date compared with $date .
significant increases in import volume were noted of soya bean oil , peanut oil , vegetable oil and lard ; and rice .
however , notable decreases were recorded in the import volume of animals of the bovine species , live ; and vegetables .
over the same period of comparison , the import volume of consumer goods increased by $number .
notable increases in import volume were noted of passenger motor cars ; and watches .
however , the import volume of tobacco manufactures ; and alcoholic beverages decreased significantly .
the import volume of raw materials and semi - manufactures increased by $number in $date compared with $date .
rapid increases in import volume were noted of lime , cement , and fabricated building materials except glass , clay construction materials and refractory construction materials ; and wood , lumber and cork .
however , significant decreases were noted of wool and other animal hair ; and raw cotton .
imports of fuels decreased by $number in volume in $date compared with $date .
as regards capital goods , the volume of imports increased by $number in $date over $date .
notable increases were recorded in the import volume of industrial machinery , other than electrical machinery and textile machinery ; and office machinery .
the import volume of transport equipment however decreased .
comparing $date with $date , import prices of raw materials and semi - manufactures ; capital goods ; consumer goods ; and foodstuffs decreased by $number , $number , $number and $number respectively .
on the other hand , import prices of fuels increased by $number .
details of the above statistics are published in the $date issue of the " hong kong trade index numbers " .
the report will be available on sale around $date at hk $ $number per copy at either (i) the government publications centre on the ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway ; or (ii) the publications unit of the census and statistics department on the $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries regarding regular subscription to this report may be directed to the publications ( sales ) office of the information services department at $number floor , siu on centre , $number lockhart road , wan chai , hong kong ( tel . no. : $number $number ) and enquiries on trade indices to the census and statistics department ( tel . no. : $number $number ) .
smooth transition , trade ties on us agenda for ce the chief executive mr tung chee hwa , says he will use his $number official visit to the united states to explain hong kong 's smooth transition and to enhance hong kong - us economic and trade relations .
during the five - day visit mr tung will meet president bill clinton , leading political figures interested in hong kong affairs , business leaders and prominent think - tanks .
the visit began yesterday ( monday ) with a frank and useful discussion with us secretary of state madeline albright and deputy secretary of state strobe talbott .
also present during the meeting were under secretary of state thomas pickering and us consul - general in hong kong richard boucher .
the friendly exchange of views touched on issues of mutual interest including trade and economic relations , law enforcement and the evolution of the democratic process .
the chief executive shared his views on the future of hong kong and how he saw it developing an even more dynamic role in the asia - pacific region .
he was also congratulated by the us government on the smooth transition .
tonight , mr tung and his wife were guests of honour at a reception hosted by china 's ambassador to the united states mr li daoyu .
mr tung told washington diplomats , guests and the media that it was very much life as usual in hong kong in the two months and eight days since the transfer of sovereignty .
" i 'm here in the us , a place i know very well ... to talk about the transition , about our plans for the future and why we are confident as we go forward in the months and years ahead , " he said .
" i will also be here to enhance the very strong economic and trade relationship we already have between hong kong and the us . "
mr tung said hong kong was well - placed to play a strategic role in the development of the asian and chinese economies .
" hong kong will have an extremely useful and effective role to play in this very dynamic region and i hope to be able to explain to our friends in america how hong kong can best serve american business interest in the months and years ahead . "
mr tung 's programme today ( tuesday ) includes a luncheon speech to the us chamber of commerce , a meeting with secretary of the treasury robert rubin and a meeting with members of the senate foreign relations committee and its sub - committee on east asian and pacific affairs .
the chief executive will also formally open the new premises of the hong kong economic and trade office in washington d.c. end
traffic arrangements for world bank / imf annual meetings the transport department today ( tuesday ) announces that special traffic and public transport arrangements will be implemented in wan chai during the $number world bank / international monetary fund annual meetings .
these temporary arrangements will be carried out in phases from this thursday ( $date ) onwards and concluded at $number am on $date .
(a) traffic arrangements the east and west bridges leading to the entrance of the hong kong convention and exhibition centre (hkcec) phase ii will be closed to all vehicular traffic , except authorised vehicles with permits , from $number pm on thursday ( $date ) .
fleming road flyover northbound between lockhart road and harbour road will be restricted to buses and taxis only from $number am on saturday ( $date ) .
all other vehicles will be temporarily prohibited to use the northbound carriageway of the flyover .
at the same time , the u - turning movement from fleming road northbound to southbound at its junction with convention avenue will be banned .
motorists can route via lockhart road , arsenal street , gloucester road and fleming road or tonnochy road .
motorists on fleming road heading for wan chai north are advised to use gloucester road , o ' brien road , lockhart road and marsh road .
motorists on hennessy road can use either arsenal street or marsh road for wan chai north .
from $number pm on saturday ( $date ) , convention avenue and harbour road , both sections between fleming road and fenwick street , will be re - routed from two - way to one - way eastbound and one - way westbound respectively .
during the re - routeing , right - turn movements for all vehicles from convention avenue onto fleming road southbound and then onto harbour road westbound will be allowed , forming a simple gyratory system in a clockwise direction through convention avenue , fleming road and harbour road .
vehicles from central are advised to use gloucester road and fleming road or tonnochy road for wan chai north .
vehicles on fenwick pier street will be diverted via fenwick pier street , convention avenue , fleming road and harbour road eastbound .
vehicles on convention avenue westbound heading for central will be diverted to route via fleming road and harbour road westbound .
(b) temporary clearways arrangements picking up and setting down of passengers will be allowed on the following sections of roads in wan chai from $number pm on saturday ( $date ) : * the northern kerbside lane of harbour road from its junction with fleming road to the slip road leading to hkcec ; * the lay - by on harbour road outside shui on centre and wan chai tower ; and * the southern kerbside lane of convention avenue outside grand hyatt hotel and new world harbour view hotel .
however , to ensure effective traffic management , the following sections of roads will be designated temporary clearways during the period specified below from $number am on $date : * from $number am to $number pm daily a ) the northern kerbside lane of hennessy road from its junction with marsh road to a point $number metres west of the same junction ; and b ) the northern kerbside lane of lockhart road from its junction with stewart road to a point $number metres west of the same junction . * $time daily a ) the southern kerbside lane of convention avenue from a point $number metres east of its junction with the west bridge leading to hkcec phase ii to a point $number metres east of the same junction .
(c) public transport arrangements on public transport , the bus terminus , taxi stand and coach parking spaces at hkcec phase ii transport interchange will be suspended from $number pm on thursday ( $date ) .
china motor bus (cmb) route no.25m will be temporarily terminated at wan chai ferry pier bus terminus .
from $number pm on saturday ( $date ) , kowloon motor bus (kmb) route no . a2 on its kowloon bound journeys will be diverted to operate via fleming road , wan chai ferry pier bus terminus , fleming road , harbour road westbound , convention avenue , fleming road and harbour road eastbound before resuming its normal routeings .
the existing bus stop for route no . a2 on harbour road eastbound near hkcec will be relocated to harbour road westbound outside central plaza .
the existing bus stop for routes no . $number , $number , $number and 6 2 p on harbour road westbound outside causeway centre will be relocated to the lay - by outside china resources building .
(d) suspension of parking spaces the metered parking spaces on the northern kerbside lane of lockhart road between fleming road and stewart road will be suspended temporarily from $number am on saturday ( $date ) .
feasibility study on route $number final section to begin the highways department today ( tuesday ) commissioned atkins china ltd . to undertake a detailed feasibility study on the final section of route $number , between tsing yi and cheung sha wan in west kowloon .
the $ $number - million contract for the study was signed between the department 's project manager / airport and port access , mr robert h lloyd , and representatives of atkins china ltd .
a spokesman for the department said , " the study including a traffic and environmental impact assessment on the works will take $number months to complete .
" the $number - kilometre final section together with both north lantau highway and lantau link , which were open in may , will form the whole of route $number from the new airport at chek lap kok to west kowloon . "
it will connect lantau link in the west and west kowloon highway and route $number at its eastern limit .
the work will include the construction of a $number - kilometre tunnel underneath tsing yi island , the stonecutters bridge over rambler channel and viaducts .
" taking into consideration the length of the main span of $number metres and the difficulties of overcoming the constraints imposed by the adjacent busy container terminals , the construction of the world - class stonecutters bridge would present yet another exciting challenge for highways department , " the spokesman said .
the project is estimated at $ $number ( at $date $number prices ) and scheduled to commence work $date .
this section of route $number , upon completion $date , will provide a direct connection to container terminal number $number and an alternative route to the route $number ( kwai chung section ) to west kowloon .
together with route $number , it will form a new strategic east / west link to the container port .
maiden voyage of hk registered ship after return to china the director of marine , mr ian dale , this ( tuesday ) morning welcomed $number hong kong - registered ship on her maiden voyage to the territory since hong kong 's return to china .
speaking on the occasion to commemorate the maiden voyage of a new container ship , oocl singapore , mr dale said that he was particularly pleased that the oocl singapore was $number hong kong registered ship to make her maiden voyage here since our return to china on $date .
noting that hong kong has a long history in ship registration , mr dale said , " with our return of sovereignty to china , there is no change to the hong kong shipping register except the colours of the flags that fly at the stern of our ships . "
he believes the hong kong shipping register is recognised as a quality register world - wide and has enjoyed considerable support .
the hong kong shipping register ranked $number largest register in the world $date .
mr dale said that as a responsible maritime administration , the marine department of the hong kong special administrative region continued to try to improve its services to the shipping community , including that of the shipping register .
he pointed out that the hong kong shipping register was currently leading the way , and would continue to operate successfully with the support of clients .
grateful to the orient overseas container line (oocl) group which has been a key supporter to the hong kong shipping register for many years , mr dale revealed that the register has nine container ships owned by the oocl amounting to almost $number gross registered tons .
" apart from being $number hong kong registered ship to make her maiden voyage to the hong kong special administrative region , the oocl singapore , a container ship of $number gross registered tonnage , is also the largest of $number four ocean - going ships to join the hong kong shipping register since $date , " said mr dale .
he said , " this demonstrates confidence in hong kong as a world shipping centre and a quality shipping register . "
mr dale added that he understood the oocl group had plans to place more newbuildings on the hong kong shipping register when they were completed next year and he looked forward to the arrival of these ships with pleasure .
police to join lands department in enhancing staff safety the lands department is committed to implementing any practical measures to ensure the safety of the staff in carrying out their duties .
a spokesman for the department said this after a meeting between the department and the police this ( tuesday ) afternoon .
the meeting aimed to discuss measures to step up office security and the safety of staff at work .
the meeting was convened following a discussion between the director of lands , mr robert pope , and the commissioner of police , mr eddie hui .
both expressed concern for the two recent attacks on the lands staff .
$number incident involved a senior land executive of north district lands office .
he was assaulted by several people on his way home after work in sheung shui on $date .
" as the police are investigating the cases , it is not appropriate at this stage to speculate on the reasons for the attack , " the spokesman said .
" however , we are very concerned about the safety of our staff in discharging their duties , and we will spare no efforts to assist the police in the early arrest of the culprits , " he said .
we would take them into account in reviewing our safety measures provided for the staff , " he added .
the police proposed a series of seminars to be held with the district lands office (dlo) staff to raise awareness of possible threats and to establish a closer working relationship between district police officers and dlo staff .
the police will also look at the management of the office buildings with a view to improving office security .
detective chief inspector of the police crime prevention bureau , mr bob white , principal executive officer ( administration ) of the lands department , mr ken wong , and vice - chairman of the land executives association , mr tse hing - chit , attended the meeting this afternoon .
no mail delivery on public holiday the postmaster general , mr robert footman , announced today ( tuesday ) that there would be no mail delivery during the forthcoming public holiday on $date ( the day following mid - autumn festival ) . all post offices would be closed .
however , one mail collection would be arranged for all street posting boxes except those which are located on outlying islands and in remote areas . the time of collection is shown on the time - plate of each posting box .
reply : madam president , (a) regarding the specific arrangements for the $number legislative council elections , the government will conduct extensive publicity and promotion so that voters and candidates will have a clear understanding of the election arrangements and changes .
at present , our plan is that publicity will involve a number of government departments including the information services department , radio television hong kong , home affairs department , registration and electoral office , home affairs bureau and constitutional affair bureau , while the electoral affairs commission will conduct promotional activities relating to registration of electors and issue guidelines on electoral matters .
meanwhile , the provisional legislative council is still examining the legislative council bill .
the government will co - operate with the electoral affairs commission to draw up a detailed publicity plan after the bill is passed by the provisional legislative council .
(b) in relation to legislative council elections $date , consultants were commissioned to conduct surveys on willingness to register as voters and cast their votes .
according to the survey , the reasons given for not registering as voters given by those eligible and interviewed included lack of interest in election , no knowledge on how to register and no time available .
as regards those interviewees who had registered as voters but did not cast their votes in the election , the reasons given for not voting included no time available , not in hong kong on the voting day , having no satisfactory candidate , lack of knowledge about the legislative council or the candidates , etc. for the coming legislative council elections , we will deploy appropriate resources to conduct a full - scale voter registration exercise .
in this connection , we are considering the feasibility of making door - to - door visits to encourage eligible persons to register as voters .
there will also be publicity on the importance of the coming legislative council elections to encourage active public participation .
(c) generally speaking , the voter turn - out rate is calculated in terms of the number of registered voters .
as to the turn - out rate of the forthcoming legislative council elections , no specific target number has been set .
as in the past , the government will , through various effective means , encourage eligible persons to register and take an active part in voting . of course , it is the best if the turn - out rate is as high as possible .
(d) regarding the issue of honesty , it is generally acknowledged that the elections in hong kong have had a good track record of fairness and honesty .
the electoral affairs commission will draw up detailed guidelines to ensure that the elections are conducted in a fair , open and honest manner .
the coming elections will be subject to the prevention of bribery ordinance and the corrupt and illegal practices ordinance to guarantee fairness and integrity .
the independent commission against corruption will be in charge of the relevant investigations , prosecutions and community education .
(e) according to article $number of the basic law (bl) , a permanent resident of the sar shall have the right to vote .
the definition of a permanent resident is set out in bl $number which is reflected in part $number of schedule $number to the immigration ordinance .
on the basis of bl $number and $number , there are two groups of persons , regardless of whether they were eligible voters before $date , will no longer be qualified as eligible voters for the coming legislative council election to be held in $date i ) persons who have resided in hong kong for seven years or more but who are not eligible to be permanent residents under the amended immigration ordinance .
many persons not of chinese nationality who have ordinarily resided in hong kong belong to this group .
persons under category (ii) above may become eligible electors for the coming legco election if they can establish their permanent resident status before the end of the voter registration period early next year .
to do so , a person will need to apply to the right of abode section of the immigration department for verification of eligibility for permanent resident status .
the entire process would take about six weeks .
i would like to take the opportunity to remind all those persons concerned to submit an early application to the immigration department .
women health centres following is a question by the hon mrs peggy lam and a reply by the acting secretary for health and welfare , mr gregory leung , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : with regard to the woman health centres in hong kong , will the government inform this council of : (a) the total number of such centres at present ; (b) the services provided by such centres and their operating hours ; (c) the average attendance at these centres in each of the past three years ; and (d) the average waiting time for a consultation appointment at these centres ?
reply : madam president , (a) the department of health (dh) currently operates three woman health centres , which are located in lam tin , chai wan and tuen mun respectively .
in addition to these centres , some voluntary organisations and medical institutions , such as the family planning association of hong kong and the tung wah group of hospitals , also provide similar physical check - up services for women .
(b) services provided by dh 's woman health centres include health education and counselling , physical examination and laboratory investigations .
the centres are open from $number am to $number pm and from $number pm to $number pm on mondays to fridays , and from $number am to $number pm on saturdays .
(c) the three woman health centres of dh were opened in $date , $date and $date respectively .
since $number centre opened $date , the total number of attendances for consultation at these three centres up to end - $date is $number .
from may to $date , the number of attendances was $number . $date and $number , the number was $number and $number respectively . during the period from $date to end - $date , the number was $number .
these figures do not include the number of attendances for health education talks and related activities .
(d) the average waiting time for $number attendance for consultation at dh 's woman health centres is about two weeks .
reply : madam president , (a) the opening hours of the road check points at man kam to , sha tau kok and lok ma chau were last reviewed $date .
at that time , the man kam to and lok ma chau crossings were open from $number am to $number pm while the sha tau kok crossing was open from $number am to $number pm .
following the review , the opening hours of lok ma chau border crossing have since $date been extended to $time each day to spread the flow of traffic and to match the $number - hour opening of container terminals in kwai chung .
we are closely monitoring the traffic volume of the man kam to crossing to see if it is necessary to extend its operating hours .
on the sha tau kok crossing , we are discussing with the guangdong authorities about a proposal to extend the opening hours for two more hours i.e. from $number am to $number pm to $number am to $number pm .
we are also closely monitoring the traffic volume at the above boundary crossings and the lo wu crossing and will review their capacity as well as operating hours from time to time to ensure a smooth flow of passengers and goods .
as regards the operation of piers , there are two ferry terminals with passenger vessels going to mainland china , namely , the china ferry terminal and the macau ferry terminal .
the operating hours of the former is $number . 0 0 am to $number pm while the latter is round the clock .
the existing operating hours for the china ferry terminal is sufficient to cope with the present demand and hence we do not have any intention to further extend the operating hour of the china ferry terminal for the time being .
for cargo vessels arriving by sea , immigration , port health and customs clearance are already available $time a day .
(b) we are conscious of the need to enhance efficiency of the immigration service and streamline procedures to facilitate ease of travel between hong kong and the mainland , but without compromising the integrity of our immigration control .
to this end , we have maintained close liaison with the mainland authorities .
there is , therefore no question of " integrating " the immigration department of the hksar with the corresponding department in the mainland , or any form of joint immigration clearance .
on travel documents , most hong kong residents travel to the mainland with a home visit permit issued by the mainland authorities , and a hong kong identity card .
a hong kong re - entry permit is required in respect of children under the age of $number and those who have lost their identity cards .
we are not aware of any plans on the part of mainland authorities to dispense with the home visit permit , although we believe they are considering improvements to the home visit permit system .
(c) at present there are substantial air services between hong kong and the mainland . we have a total of $number round - trip flights with the mainland every week .
with the increasing links between hong kong and the mainland , passenger and goods traffic will likely continue to grow .
the matter will be pursued between the authorities concerned in the light of market demand and the opportunities that will arise with the opening of the new airport at chek lap kok .
" calling number display " to be introduced into $number hotline following is a question by the hon ngan kam - chuen and a written reply by the secretary for security , mr peter lai , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : will the government inform this council whether the calling number display (cnd) service is currently available on the telephone network of the $number police hotline ; if not , why not , and whether there is any plan to introduce the cnd service on the network as soon as possible ?
reply : madam president , at present , the $number police hotline is not equipped with the calling number display (cnd) service .
the police will upgrade the computer systems of the $number police hotline to enable it to receive cnd signals .
the cnd service is expected to be introduced into the $number police hotline at the hong kong island regional command and control centre (rccc) in $date , and the kowloon rccc as well as the new territories rccc in $date .
washington visit 'very useful , friendly and candid ' : ce the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( $date , us time ) he has held 'very meaningful and engaging ' discussions on hong kong 's future democratic evolution and economic development with key political and business leaders in the us capital .
mr tung said the exchanges of views over the past two - and - a - half days had been candid , friendly and had 'helped deepen the understanding on both sides ' .
" i thought they were very , very useful , " he said .
" i was also very pleased that most of the friends , most of the people i met in washington , appreciate and understand how well the transition has gone .
" i also went on to explain how confident we are about our future . we discussed , obviously , our election next year . "
the chief executive said he was very glad he had made the trip and believed 'we have achieved most of the objectives we had set out to do ' .
he said he was looking forward to his scheduled meeting with us president bill clinton in washington on friday ( $date , us time ) .
in another full day of meetings , the chief executive started his day with a breakfast hosted by the heritage foundation , a us think - tank which has consistently rated hong kong as the world 's freest economy .
mr tung then followed this with a series of meetings and discussions with key us political leaders including the assistant senate majority leader don nickles , the house leadership hosted by chris cox , senator jesse helms and senators connie mack and joe lieberman .
he also held an hour - long meeting with the house international relations committee and the subcommittee on asia and the pacific .
mr tung had lunch with members of another influential think - tank , the center for strategic and international studies (csis) and tonight appeared on the influential national news and current affairs programme ' the news hour with jim lehrer ' .
during the programme , he explained on national television hong kong 's confidence about the future , the arrangements for next year 's elections and the development of hong kong 's political systems over the next $number years .
the final engagement of his washington trip was a $number - minute press conference with international , us and hong kong media .
in his talks with political and business leaders , mr tung said he had emphasized the very important relationship that hong kong has with the united states .
he said he had taken the opportunity to explain hong kong 's return had been very smooth , that people in hong kong were very proud about the reunification with china and that 'we are very confident about the future ' .
" we also went on to talk about issues that we are very concerned about , issues such as law enforcement , enforcement against intellectual property rights and money laundering , " said mr tung .
" issues that generally relate to law enforcement were also discussed because these are issues where we in hong kong feel very deeply , and they are very important in the united states also . "
in regards to elections , mr tung explained that the basic law mapped out the political evolution of hong kong over the next $number years .
" there is a basic law which defines very clearly how do we move forward , and we will do it in accordance with the basic law , and from my point of view , this is a good way to do it , " he said .
" it is a gradual , step - by - step approach and i think it suits hong kong very well .
" discussion centres around next year 's election here ( in the us ) but what i 'm trying to tell everybody is , hey , you have to look way beyond next year and see what 's going to happen $number years from now , $number years from now , because we have to look far in the development of our political institutions . "
monitors ' report submitted to cs the monitors appointed to observe the orderly repatriation programme operation this ( thursday ) morning have submitted their report to the chief secretary for administration .
the two monitors comprised a non - official justice of the peace , mr stephen lau man - lung , and representative from a non - government organisation , ms choi yuk - yuk from oxfam ( hong kong ) .
some $number government forms available through internet getting a government form no longer requires you to get half - day 's off and travel to and from government offices as $number most commonly used government forms can now be obtained through the internet .
this new service was $number launched in $date this year as one the many projects under the helping business programme .
a government spokesman said today ( thursday ) that the aim of the service was to provide the community with a better and more efficient means of getting public forms , and to help government departments provide a more user - friendly interface with customers .
up to present , the service covers forms of $number departments . the more common ones include application forms for different types of driving licences , an extension of stay and amendment of registered particulars of hong kong identity card and forms relating to textiles licensing .
a form detail sheet is attached to each government form providing information such as the nature of the form , enquiry telephone number and submission details .
the government forms can be accessible on the internet via the hong kong sar government homepage or directly through the web site address of the forms homepage http://www.info.gov.hk/forms the search can be made with the form number , form title , the name of the department or key word ( s ) .
working instructions are available through the searching process .
the spokesman added that the business and services promotion unit and the management services agency were now working on $number phase of the project by uploading another $number government forms of seven departments including intellectual property department and labour department .
" we expect a total of $number government forms will be available on the internet by $date this year , " the spokesman said .
historic moments captured in pictures and print a book which captures the most momentous moment in hong kong 's history is now available to the public .
the official souvenir book of the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china has gone on sale at the government publications centre at the queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong , and at major bookshops at $ $number a copy .
entitled " entering a new era " , the $number page book contains $number photographs of history in the making as hong kong returned to china .
taken by information services department (isd) photographers , the collection of photographs provides a unique view of those never - to - be - forgotten events centred around midnight on $date .
the book covers the handover ceremony , the inauguration ceremony of the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) , the fireworks and laser display and a host of other festivities and events held on and after $date to celebrate the establishment of the hksar .
the bilingual text includes the speeches and comments by the president of the people 's republic of china , mr jiang zemin , and the hksar 's chief executive , mr tung chee hwa .
mr tung is taking copies with him on his overseas visits as gifts to the world leaders he meets .
classic lamps beautify the pearl of orient the glamorous pearl of orient will glow brighter from tonight ( thursday ) with the addition of classic street lamps in selected tourist spots throughout hong kong .
speaking at a switch - on ceremony in tsim sha tsui for $number phase of an extensive street lights aesthetic scheme , the assistant director ( headquarters ) of the highways department , mr andrew chee , said these decorative lamps would lighten up hong kong 's popular scenic spots .
the scheme , which costs $ $number funded by the hong kong jockey club charities trust , will involve the replacement of traditional street lights by $number sets of new modern or antique style decorative lamps at major tourist spots in the territory to provide an unique style and matching environment .
a modern - style lamp has one decorative kit while an antique - style has three .
both lamps will be equipped with high pressure sodium tubular bulbs of $number watts , $number watts or $number watts for installation on lighting columns to beautify the environment .
the $number spots selected are on hong kong island , kowloon , sai kung , sha tin , tsuen wan , tai po , tuen mun , yuen long , fanling , sheung shui , lantau island , ping chau , cheung chau and lamma island .
of them , star ferry concourse bus terminus , salisbury road and nathan road section between austin road and salisbury road in kowloon were selected as $number phase of the scheme for the installation of $number lamps .
installation commenced in end - $date in phases for completion in $date next year .
joining mr chee at the ceremony were the director of charities and corporate secretariat of the hong kong jockey club , mr david yau ; acting deputy director of home affairs department , mr victor ng ; district officer / yau tsim mong , ms rebecca pun ; chairman of the yau tsim mong provisional district board , mr chow chun - fai and district commander of police / yau tsim district , mr c d prowse .
in support of the street lights aesthetic scheme , mr yau said : " these classic lamps will not only beautify streets and roads but also add colour to these scenic spots , thus attract more tourists . "
popular tourist spots in other major cities such as london , tokyo and singapore , have similar aesthetic street lamps to attract tourists .
contract for managing on - street parking meters awarded the transport department today ( thursday ) commissioned hong kong parking limited , a joint venture between wilson parking ( holdings ) limited and serco guardian ( f. m. ) limited , to manage , operate and maintain all local on - street parking meters and the associated traffic aids .
the contract , commencing on $date , will be for four years with a provision for extension of up to six months by the government .
speaking on the contract , a spokesman for the department said : " the terms and conditions of the new contract are basically the same as those of the existing one .
" the contractor will be responsible for collecting revenue from the parking meters , maintaining and repairing all equipment related to the system as well as operating a telephone complaints unit , dealing with complaints on defective meters . "
the telephone hotline $number $number for reporting defective meters will continue to be used .
the spokesman said : " under the new contract , the company commissioned is required to monitor the replacement of existing mechanical meters with electronic parking meters operated by smart - card . "
installation of these devices will be phased beginning next year .
" the electronic parking meters will be managed and operated by the contractor , including the collection and documentation of related operational statistics and the marketing , sale , storage and after - sale services of smart - card , " the spokesman added .
however , the level of parking fees , the types of parking meters to be installed , the specifications of the types of smart - card accepted and approval to the designation , cancellation and suspension of parking meters will be determined by the government .
upgrading of sha tin traffic surveillance the transport department today ( thursday ) signed a $ $number contract with k. h. foundations limited for upgrading the traffic surveillance system in sha tin .
speaking on the project , a spokesman for the department said , " the contract requires the company to construct a total of $number foundations for the closed circuit television (cctv) system in sha tin new town .
" construction work will start next week for completion in three months . "
the cctv system will include the installation of $number roadside cameras and $number rooftop cameras at a total of $number strategic locations in sha tin , tai wai and ma on shan .
tender for supplying and fixing of these cameras will be invited early next year .
" the system will assist in monitoring the daily traffic conditions , identifying immediately and more easily traffic problems which need timely response , " the spokesman added .
results of registration exams for pharmacists announced the pharmacy and poisons board of hong kong announced today ( thursday ) results of the registration examinations for pharmacists held in $date .
a total of $number , $number and $number candidates sat for the examinations in " pharmacy legislation in hong kong " , " pharmacy practice " and " pharmacology " respectively with corresponding passing rates of $number per cents , $number per cent and $number per cent .
apart from meeting other conditions prescribed by the board , a pharmacy graduate who returns from overseas and intends to be registered as a pharmacist in hong kong is required to pass the above three subjects .
the board conducts its registration examinations twice a year , normally in $date and $date .
rescue exercise at airport to test efficiency an aircraft crash and rescue exercise will be held at the hong kong international airport during the early hours on saturday ( $date ) to provide continuation training and familiarisation in rescue techniques for all parties which will be involved in such operations .
the exercise will be organized by the civil aviation department and will be participated by the fire services department , hong kong police force , department of health , auxiliary medical services , civil aid services , hospital authority , immigration department , customs and excise department , information services department and airline .
a spokesman for the civil aviation department said there will be deployment of emergency vehicles to and from the airport , but inconvenience to the public will be kept to a minimum during the exercise .
trading firm fined for malpractice a trading firm was fined $ $number at tsuen wan magistracy today ( thursday ) for importing strategic commodities $number pcvd video controllers and $number pentinum microprocessors - from the united states and malaysia and exporting the $number pcvd video controllers to south korea without valid licences .
the strategic commodities in question are worth more than $ $number .
the court heard that an investigation by officers of the customs and excise department had revealed that between $date $number and $date $number , segyung hong kong limited purchased the goods from united states and malaysia suppliers for the purpose of sales to local consumers and overseas buyers .
the accused company arranged the goods to be imported into hong kong by eight occasions and subsequently re - exported the $number pcvd video controllers to south korea in $date $number .
the investigation also found that the company had falsely declared the dates of the importation of the goods in seven import licence applications , in order to conceal the unlicensed importation .
" the offence is serious , " said a spokesman for the customs and excise department .
the spokesman stressed that officers of the department would step up enforcement actions track down such malpractice in an attempt to ensure hong kong 's continued access to high - tech goods and up - to - date technology and preventing hong kong from being used as a conduit for the proliferation of chemical , biological and nuclear weapons , and other strategically - sensitive goods .
the maximum penalty on summary conviction for importing or exporting strategic commodities without a licence or furnishing false information in licence application is a fine of $ $number and two years imprisonment .
meeting with clinton 'warm , cordial & very useful ' says ce the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , has wrapped up his $number official visit to the united states with a 'warm , cordial and very useful ' meeting with us president bill clinton .
in the singularly most important meeting of his five - day visit , mr tung spent $time with mr clinton and key us advisers in the white house oval office .
also present were vice president al gore , national security adviser sandy berger , acting secretary of state strobe talbot , us trade representative ambassador charlene barshefsky , assistant national security adviser jeffrey bader , us consul - general in hong kong richard boucher and national economic council chairman dan tarullo .
accompanying mr tung were the secretary for trade and industry miss denise yue , hong kong commissioner , usa , kenneth pang and mr tung 's private secretary joshua law .
during the meeting mr tung and president clinton discussed hong kong 's transition , the development of the 'one country , two systems ' concept and how hong kong people had full confidence in moving forward within the framework of the basic law .
mr tung and the president spoke of the mutually beneficial hong kong - us relationship and how it continues to move forward in a constructive manner .
he told the president that hong kong would continue to live up to its international obligations in areas such as intellectual property rights , strengthening controls on trade in strategic commodities and the fight against drugs .
moving ahead to strengthen bilateral economic , trade and investment ties were also touched on .
the importance of hong kong - us relations into the next century were discussed , with mr tung saying that 'we will do our utmost to make sure the relationship continues to be strong and viable ' .
mr clinton 's upcoming summit meeting with president jiang zemin was also discussed , with great importance placed on a constructive and long - term relationship between the two countries .
after the meeting , mr tung told reporters : " i emphasised our commitment to democracy and to the movement of political evolution as outlined in the basic law and how we will move forward in that manner .
" you know , we are very committed to democracy . it is very important in hong kong to move in this direction because it is in the long - term interests of hong kong .
" the importance of democracy is free speech , freedom of the press , the ability for political parties to organise , to debate openly .
the importance of democracy is about the rule of law and we already have these fundamentals to push forward with democracy in hong kong .
" we also discussed generally the asian - american relationship and we talked about the importance of a good sino - us relationship .
the president emphasised how important that relationship is to the world and i emphasised how important it was to hong kong .
" it was a very useful discussion . "
mr tung flies back to new york from the us capital this afternoon before leaving for hong kong tonight .
ce 's transcript following is the transcript of the remarks by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , to reporters after his meeting with president bill clinton at the white house today ( friday , $date , us time ) : mr tung : i had a warm and cordial , very useful meeting with the president just now .
i was able to explain to the president how well the transition has gone and that 'one country , two systems ' is now functioning really well . we also had an opportunity for me to emphasise how important the us - hong kong relationship is .
it is an important relationship and i emphasised we will do the utmost to make sure the relationship continues to be strong and viable .
we discussed areas of intellectual property protection , strategic commodity trade curbs , the fight against narcotics and in areas where we all can work together . i have emphasised our commitment to democracy and to the movement of political evolution as outlined in the basic law .
we also discussed generally about asia - america relationship and we talked about the importance of a good sino - us relationship .
the president emphasised how important the relationship is to the world , and i emphasised how important it is for hong kong .
we also talked about the importance of the coming summit and expect the summit between president jiang zemin and president clinton will be a successful one .
question : ( francis moriarty , rthk ) : any specific proposals for either you or the president on how relations could be improved ?
mr tung : we had a very useful discussion as to how important the development of these relationships are and i think we look forward , we all be working very hard to make sure this will happen .
question : ( unknown reporter ) : how did you explain to the president your commitment to democracy , given your recent change in the election law and how you do not now have people of hong kong deciding their legislature ?
mr tung : you know , we are very committed to democracy .
it is very important for hong kong to move in that direction because it is in the long - term interests of hong kong . the importance of democracy is free speech , freedom of the press , the importance of democracy is the ability to have political parties , to organise them , to debate openly .
ce spreads the hong kong story in new york in a whirlwind one - day visit today ( thursday , us time ) , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , has been spreading the hong kong success story to influential groups of business leaders and policy makers in new york .
within the space of $time , mr tung told almost $number people how hong kong was moving ahead 'with pride and confidence ' after the reversion to chinese sovereignty .
in another tight round of engagements , mr tung held a breakfast briefing with the committee on foreign relations , spoke with the editorial boards of the ' wall street journal ' and ' new york times ' , met with the council of $number and attended a reception by the chinese community in new york .
his day included two keynote speeches , each of which included question and answer sessions lasting more than $time , as well as another press conference for the us and travelling hong kong media .
a luncheon address to the asia society was attended by $number people , while a black - tie dinner hosted by the influential economic club of new york attracted almost $number of its members and guests .
areas of common interest in all of mr tung 's meetings and briefings included hong kong 's continued economic development , the hk - us dollar link , democratic and political evolution in hong kong , relations with china and taiwan and human rights .
he stressed hong kong was committed to following the pace of democratic evolution over the next decade as set out in the basic law .
" the progress we will achieve in $number years from $number of democratic process will be far more comprehensive and far - reaching than what we had achieved under $number years of colonialism , " he said .
" is a period of $number years too long for this evolutionary process , a process that is critical to hong kong 's success or failure and of which we in hong kong , and no one else will bear the full consequences ?
however , let me emphasise this point - at the end of the day , we must move forward in what we , the people of hong kong , think is in the best long - term interests of hong kong .
" and would you expect me to do no less ?
" i believe we have struck the right balance . "
mr tung also stressed he was committed to making the concept of 'one country , two systems ' work since 'success in hong kong can serve as a significant step towards the greater and final objective of reunification of the entire nation ' .
mr tung leaves for washington tomorrow ( friday , us time ) for a scheduled meeting with us president bill clinton .
during his press conference today , mr tung said : " i am looking forward to the visit .
i will tell you all about it when i come out . "
csd 's response to newspaper report in response to a number of queries into a newspaper report that the police were investigating a drugs case in stanley prison , a spokesman for the correctional services department today ( friday ) made the following statement : " as a precautionary measure to guard against illegal articles being smuggled into prisons , security operations are routinely conducted to prevent such items , especially dangerous drugs , from being taken into our penal institutions .
all prisoners coming through our gates are physically searched and routine inspections are carried out on facilities and accommodations within the institutions as a safeguard to illegal activities .
one such routine security operation was recently carried out in stanley prison and two packets of white powder were found during a search of prisoners .
as there was a suspicion that the powder could be drugs , the case was reported to the police for investigation .
in the event of suspicion of dangerous drugs , the proper channel to ascertain the nature of the substance is to report to the police who would in turn , refer the case to the government chemist for examination .
whatever the outcome of this particular case , the department remains vigilant against the smuggling of illegal articles into prisons and would continue to take measures to prevent such activities , whether they are based on suspicion or otherwise . "
revised planning guidelines on uses in industrial zone endorsed the town planning board has endorsed a revised set of planning guidelines for applications for various uses within " industrial " zone to meet the changing needs of the industrial sector .
announcing details of the revised guidelines at a press conference today ( friday ) , vice - chairman of the board and director of planning , dr peter pun , said they would allow a broader range of uses and premises in industrial areas , including office , showroom and commercial uses in industrial buildings , and composite industrial - office ( i - o ) buildings .
" on the basis of recommendations of the ' provision of industrial premises and the development of planning guidelines and design parameters for new industrial areas and business parks (pipnib) study ' , six existing town planning guidelines ( tpb pgs ) for industrial zone have been reviewed and consolidated into four revised tpb pgs , " dr pun said .
the four revised guidelines are : * tpb pg - no. 1 a - guidelines for application for office and showroom uses in industrial building within industrial zone * tpb pg - no. 4 a - guidelines for application for composite industrial - office buildings in industrial zone * tpb pg - no. 3 a - guidelines for application for office buildings in industrial zone * tpb pg - no. 7 a - guidelines for application for commercial use in industrial building within industrial zone under tpb pg - no 1 a , the proportion of permitted ancillary office use has been increased $number per cent of the total usable floor area .
a combination of ancillary office and showroom uses up to $number per cent of the total usable floor area is also permitted , provided that the ancillary showroom will not occupy $number per cent of the total usable floor area .
ancillary office and showroom uses exceeding the prescribed percentages and unrelated office and showroom uses will still require planning permission from the board .
tpb pg - no 4 a allows a broader range of uses in composite ( i - o ) buildings .
commercial uses intended to provide supporting functions to the i - o uses and convenience to workers will be permitted on the lowest three floors of the building subject to a maximum plot ratio of one or $number per cent of the total gross floor area .
trading firm requiring large storage space of not less than $number per cent of the total usable area and involving frequent loading and unloading activities , which cannot be accommodated in conventional commercial / office buildings , will also be permitted in an i - o building .
the revised guidelines have also specified the planning criteria for composite i - o buildings and the revised parking and loading and unloading requirements .
for previously approved i - o development proposals , the board 's approval of amendments on the basis of the revised guidelines is still required .
tpb pgs - no 3 a & 7 a have been updated to include planning criteria related to fire safety , parking and loading and unloading requirements .
" the definition of 'industrial uses ' in the revised guidelines has been modified to incorporate training activities as specialised training is often required as a result of the increasing application of high technology in industrial processes , " dr pun said .
he pointed out that the revised guidelines set out the general planning criteria adopted by the board in considering applications for uses in " industrial " zone .
" they are intended to help prospective applicants prepare planning applications .
each application will be considered on its individual merits , " he added .
the pipnib study , commissioned by the planning department , had recommended a number of measures including changes to the statutory planning mechanisms to enhance the development of industrial area .
the study also found that hong kong 's manufacturing industry was still performing an important economic role where the industrial and industrial - related activities had become more diverse and management / service oriented .
other statutory planning mechanisms to take forward the recommendations of the study , including amendments to notes attached to statutory plans and possible rezoning of existing industrial areas to other uses , will be presented to the board for further consideration .
copies of the tpb pgs are available free of charge at the secretary of the town planning board and the planning information and technical unit , planning department , $number floor , murray building , garden road , hong kong .
draft north point outline zoning plan amended the town planning board today ( friday ) announced amendments to the draft north point outline zoning plan (ozp) .
" the amendments involve the rezoning of four sites with a total area of $number hectare along king 's road and two sites with a total area of $number hectare along java road from ' industrial ' to ' commercial ' , " a spokesman for the board said .
" the amendments were made in response to findings of a recent review of supply of industrial land , " he added . other amendments included the rezoning of a $number hectare site at king 's road near the north point mass transit railway station and a $number hectare site near the junction of healthy street east and tsat tsz mui road from ' industrial ' to ' industrial ( group $number ) ' . these will allow application to be made under section $number of the town planning ordinance to the town planning board for the change of use from industrial to residential .
" the rezonings are intended to encourage redevelopment of these sites from industrial to residential use and at the same time providing the board with adequate control to avoid the possible transitional industrial / residential interface problems in the redevelopment process , " the spokesman said .
meanwhile , another $number hectare site at wai tsui crescent has been rezoned from ' open space ' to government / institution / community ' .
s / h/8 / $number ) is available for public inspection until $date during office hours at : * planning department , $number floor , murray building garden road , central , hong kong ; * hong kong district planning office , $number floor , leighton centre , $number leighton road , causeway bay hong kong ; and * eastern district office , ground floor , eastern law courts building , $number tai on street , sai wan ho hong kong .
any person affected by the amendments may submit written objection to the secretary of the town planning board , c / o planning department , $number floor , murray building , garden road , central , hong kong , before $date .
copies of the draft plan are available for sale at the survey and mapping office , lands department , $number floor , murray building , garden road , central , hong kong and the kowloon map sales office , ground floor , $number nathan road , kowloon .
use of suitable safety helmets on construction sites the labour department warned contractors and workers that they must comply with the safety requirements on the provision and wearing of suitable safety helmets on construction sites .
acting chief factory inspector ( operations ) , mr wong chong - kwok , made this warning today ( friday ) following a recent accident in which workers were hit by falling objects .
" past experience has shown that , in most accidents involving falling objects , workers escaped serious injuries by wearing suitable safety helmets , " mr wong added .
suitable safety helmets refer to those helmets conforming to acceptable international standards , such as the national standard of the people 's republic of china , the japanese industrial standards and the british standards , etc. under the construction sites ( safety ) regulations , contractors must provide suitable safety helmets and ensure they are worn by the workers when working on the site . failure to do so is an offence rendering the contractors liable to a fine of $ $number .
moreover , any person entering a construction site without wearing a suitable safety helmet is also liable to a maximum fine of $ $number .
mr wong said that officers of the occupational safety and health branch of the department had stepped up inspections to construction sites .
any contractors or workers who fail to comply with the law might be prosecuted without further warning .
improvement to kam tin road proposed the secretary for transport today ( friday ) proposes to improve and widen the section of kam tin road from au tau roundabout to the west of kam tin shi .
the project will relieve the increased traffic volume on kam tin road and in the nearby vicinity generated from the opening of san tin highway . it will also cater for the anticipated traffic when route $number ( country park section ) is open $date and kam tin bypass by mid $number .
the proposed works will involve : * the widening and improvement of the $number - kilometre section of kam tin road from a two - lane carriageway to a dual two - lane carriageway ; * provision of related footpaths , cycling tracks and slip roads joining route $number ( country park section ) ; and * ancillary works including drainage , slope , landscaping and planting works , as well as the erection of noise barriers .
details of the proposed works were published in today 's sar government gazette .
the plan and scheme for the proposed works can be inspected during office hours at : * public enquiry service centre , central and western district office , ground floor , harbour building , $number pier road , central ; * yuen long district lands office , $number floors , yuen long government offices and tai kiu market , $number kiu lok square , yuen long ; and * yuen long district office , yuen long district office building , $number castle peak road , yuen long .
any person who wishes to object to the works or the use , or both , is required to write on or before $date to the secretary for transport , central government offices , east wing , $number floor , lower albert road , hong kong .
improvement to pok fu lam road / sassoon road junction the secretary for transport today ( friday ) proposes a series of works to improve the junction of pok fu lam road and sassoon road .
the works will increase road capacity and enhance road safety at the junction and the road section in front of queen mary hospital .
the works are expected to commence in $date and complete in mid $number .
details of the proposal were published in the sar government gazette today .
the plan and scheme of the proposed works may be inspected during office hours at : * public enquiry service centre , central and western district office , ground floor , harbour building , $number pier road , central ; * hong kong south district lands office , $number floor , southorn centre , $number hennessy road , wan chai ; and * public enquiry service centre , southern district office , shop $number , ground floor , mei fung court , aberdeen centre , $number nam ning street , aberdeen .
any person who wishes to object to the works or the use , or both , is required to write on or before $date to the secretary for transport , central government offices , east wing , $number floor , lower albert road , hong kong .
trade department 's chinese homepage launched the trade department today ( friday ) launched its newly - set - up chinese homepage on the internet .
the director - general of trade , mr alan lai , said , " the launching of the chinese homepage enables the chinese language users throughout the world to access current trade information provided by the department . "
the chinese homepage , same as the english homepage , contains detailed information on the work of the department , trade of hong kong , hong kong 's commercial relations with major trading partners , and its participation in multilateral fora .
" joining the internet is part of the department 's continuing efforts to improve its service to customers .
" since the launching of the english homepage in $date , we have been working hard on the chinese homepage with further updating and new additions to its contents , " mr lai said .
a menu bar is displayed on each page to enable quick access to useful information including commercial information circulars , service counter locations at the trade department tower , service fees and charges , useful enquiries telephone numbers , and a full list of saleable forms .
the section on " frequently asked questions " is especially useful to local and overseas traders as detailed answers are given to a wide range of common questions relating to application procedures of textile import and export licences , certificate of origin , and other services provided by the department . the department has also put hong kong 's external trade statistics on its chinese and english homepages .
the statistics , presented in tables and graphic charts , are compiled by the department basing on the data sources of the world trade organisation and the census and statistics department .
the homepage will be updated regularly to provide internet users with the latest information .
the trade department 's chinese and english homepages share the same address on the internet at http://www.info.gov.hk/trade .
roadworks for redevelopment of sau mau ping estate the sau mau ping estate in kwun tong will get a face - lift following the completion of the redevelopment of sau mau ping estate phase $number in $number quarter of $number .
the redevelopment will provide two standard primary schools , a commercial centre with carparking floors and a new bus terminus .
there will also be a tunnel and an underground plaza linking the elevated walkway from sau mau ping estate phase $number to the commercial centre and the bus terminus .
to provide for the new bus terminus , a section of sau ming road will be realigned .
the existing bus terminus will be demolished and reconstructed at a new location adjoining the realigned sau ming road .
the realigned section will become a restricted road for franchised buses and authorised vehicles .
the above works and new traffic arrangements will bring improvement to the bus terminus and facilitate the pedestrian flows to and fro the commercial centre and other facilities .
the roadworks are due to begin in early next year .
$number government apprentices graduate a total of $number craft apprentices and nine technician apprentices who have completed their four - year training courses were presented certificates and trophies today ( friday ) .
they were congratulated by the director of electrical and mechanical services , mr hugh phillipson , for their successful completion of the apprenticeship .
also wishing them a rosy career prospect , provisional legislative council member , miss chan yuen - han , presented certificates and trophies to the graduating apprentices and engineering graduates .
among them were the ' nigel osborne ' cup winner , mr ng ting - sing ; the " brown " cup winner , mr chan cho - tong ; the " laishley " cup winner , mr wong man - chiu and the " howes " plaque winner , mr chan lok - hang . they were praised for their outstanding performances .
the cups were awarded to the best engineering graduate , the best technician apprentice , the best craft apprentice and the best craft apprentice respectively during basic training .
all the graduates have joined the government apprentice training scheme which was introduced $date .
the scheme aims to provide trained craftsmen and technicians for both the government and the community .
the scheme is run by the electrical and mechanical services department and jointly sponsored by the water supplies department and the fire services department .
apprentices will have to complete a four - year training programme which include both theoretical and practical work through studying at technical institutes and attachments to various workshops of the participating government departments .
both technician and craft apprentices select and attend a particular course on respectively air - conditioning , vehicle , electrical , electronic and mechanical engineering .
the minimum entry requirement for the former is four passes in hong kong certificate examination while the latter is form three level .
so far , $number craftsmen and $number technicians have successfully completed their training .
on graduation , they will be mainly posted to the three participating departments as well as the drainage services department as works supervisors or craftsmen .
temporary loading jetty at tseung kwan o a temporary loading jetty will be built at the western part of tseung kwan o to facilitate the removal of excavated materials from the site formation works of the tseung kwan o chinese permanent cemetery .
the construction of the jetty - six metres wide and $number metres long - will affect an area of $number square metres along the foreshore and sea - bed in tseung kwan o. the works will begin in $date for completion in $date .
mid - autumn carnival to be staged in wan chai members of the public can enjoy an evening of fun and entertainment in southorn playground in wan chai next monday ( $date ) to celebrate the coming mid - autumn festival .
organised by wan chai district arts , cultural , recreational and sports association and co - organised by the wan chai district office , the $number wan chai district mid - autumn lantern carnival will feature a variety of entertainment including chess games , game stalls , lion dance , lucky draw and stage performances .
officiating guests will include chairperson of wan chai provisional district board (pdb) , mrs peggy lam ; district officer ( wan chai ) mrs elaine tang ; deputy head of hong kong island office of xin hua news agency ( hong kong branch ) , mr li zheng - ci ; and provisional urban council and wan chai pdb member , mr wong hon - ching .
sponsored by the provisional urban council and wan chai pdb , the carnival will last from $number pm to $number pm in southorn playground in wan chai .
admission is free .
members of the public can call $number $number or $number $number for further enquiries .
meeting with clinton 'warm , cordial & very useful ' says ce the chief executive mr tung chee hwa has wrapped up his $number official visit to the united states with a 'warm , cordial and very useful ' meeting with us president bill clinton .
in the singularly most important meeting of his five - day visit , mr tung spent $time with mr clinton and key us advisers in the white house oval office .
also present were vice president al gore , national security adviser sandy berger , acting secretary of state strobe talbot , us trade representative ambassador charlene barshefsky , assistant national security adviser jeffrey bader , us consul - general in hong kong richard boucher and national economic council chairman dan tarullo .
accompanying mr tung were the secretary for trade and industry miss denise yue , hong kong commissioner , usa , kenneth pang and mr tung 's private secretary joshua law .
during the meeting mr tung and president clinton discussed hong kong 's transition , the development of the 'one country , two systems ' concept and how hong kong people had full confidence in moving forward within the framework of the basic law .
mr tung and the president spoke of the mutually beneficial hong kong - us relationship and how it continues to move forward in a constructive manner .
he told the president that hong kong would continue to live up to its international obligations in areas such as intellectual property rights , strengthening controls on trade in strategic commodities and the fight against drugs .
moving ahead to strengthen bilateral economic , trade and investment ties were also touched on .
the importance of hong kong - us relations into the next century were discussed , with mr tung saying that 'we will do our utmost to make sure the relationship continues to be strong and viable ' .
mr clinton 's upcoming summit meeting with president jiang zemin was also discussed , with great importance placed on a constructive and long - term relationship between the two countries .
after the meeting , mr tung told reporters : " i emphasised our commitment to democracy and to the movement of political evolution as outlined in the basic law and how we will move forward in that manner .
" you know , we are very committed to democracy . it is very important in hong kong to move in this direction because it is in the long - term interests of hong kong .
" the importance of democracy is free speech , freedom of the press , the ability for political parties to organise , to debate openly .
the importance of democracy is about the rule of law and we already have these fundamentals to push forward with democracy in hong kong .
" we also discussed generally the asian - american relationship and we talked about the importance of a good sino - us relationship .
the president emphasised how important that relationship is to the world and i emphasised how important it was to hong kong .
" it was a very useful discussion . "
mr tung flies back to new york from the us capital this afternoon before leaving for hong kong tonight .
ce 's transcript following is the transcript of the remarks by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa to reporters after his meeting with president bill clinton at the white house today ( friday , $date , us time ) : mr tung : i had a warm and cordial , very useful meeting with the president just now .
i was able to explain to the president how well the transition has gone and that 'one country , two systems ' is now functioning really well . we also had an opportunity for me to emphasise how important the us - hong kong relationship is .
it is an important relationship and i emphasised we will do the utmost to make sure the relationship continues to be strong and viable .
we discussed areas of intellectual property protection , strategic commodity trade curbs , the fight against narcotics and in areas where we all can work together . i have emphasised our commitment to democracy and to the movement of political evolution as outlined in the basic law .
we also discussed generally about asia - america relationship and we talked about the importance of a good sino - us relationship .
the president emphasised how important the relationship is to the world , and i emphasised how important it is for hong kong .
we also talked about the importance of the coming summit and expect the summit between president jiang zemin and president clinton will be a successful one .
question : ( francis moriarty , rthk ) : any specific proposals for either you or the president on how relations could be improved ?
mr tung : we had a very useful discussion as to how important the development of these relationships are and i think we look forward , we all be working very hard to make sure this will happen .
question : ( unknown reporter ) : how did you explain to the president your commitment to democracy , given your recent change in the election law and how you do not now have people of hong kong deciding their legislature ?
mr tung : you know , we are very committed to democracy .
it is very important for hong kong to move in that direction because it is in the long - term interests of hong kong . the importance of democracy is free speech , freedom of the press , the importance of democracy is the ability to have political parties , to organise them , to debate openly .
mrs tung visits asian - american welfare organisations the wife of the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , who is making his $number official visit to the united states this week , visited three welfare centres operated by the chinese - american planning council , inc (cpc) in downtown manhattan , new york , yesterday , ( $date , us time ) .
mrs betty tung visited the " project open door " senior citizen centre which is $number chinese - sponsored senior citizen centre in new york chinatown and provides a variety of services including home - delivered meals , english language training , workshops and recreational activities .
she later visited some children at the chung pak day care centre , also located in new york 's chinatown . chung pak day care centre is one of the twelve centres operated by cpc for $number children of working parents .
mrs tung also visited a senior citizens ' home , the " everlasting pine " housing for the elderly , where she called on two resident families .
the senior citizens ' home is $number subsidised housing project made possible through the joint efforts of the public , private and community sectors .
during her visit , mrs tung was accompanied by mrs nancy tsui , wife of mr david tsui , director of hong kong economic and trade office in new york .
$number building plans approved in $date the buildings department approved a total of $number building plans in $date $number on hong kong island , $number in kowloon and $number in the new territories .
this compared with $number building plans approved in $date and $number in $date the approved plans covered $number for apartment and apartment / commercial developments , three for commercial developments , seven for factory and industrial developments , and seven for community services developments .
consent was given in the month for works to start on $number building projects , which will provide $number square metres of usable domestic floor area and $number square metres of usable non - domestic floor area on completion .
the department also issued $number occupation permits $number on hong kong island , $number in kowloon and $number in the new territories .
of the buildings certified for occupation in $date , the usable floor area for domestic and non - domestic uses were $number square metres and $number square metres respectively .
the declared cost of new buildings completed in the month totalled about $ $number .
in addition , $number demolition consents involving $number buildings and structures were issued .
the department 's control and enforcement division received $number complaints against unauthorised building works in $date , and issued $number removal orders on unauthorised works .
lantau highway emergency telephones to suspend on monday the transport department announces that to facilitate equipment installation works , all roadside emergency telephone sets on north lantau highway will be temporarily suspended from $number am to $number pm on monday ( $date ) .
sham shui po do organises day camp for new arrivals new arrivals who have been in hong kong for less than two years are invited to join a day camp at the po leung kuk pak tam chung holiday camp in sai kung on $date ( sunday ) .
the event is one of the activities co - organised by the sham shui po district office , the hong kong police force , the independent commission against corruption , the social welfare department , the sham shui po provisional district board 's working group on youth and the sham shui po fight crime committee under the co - operative scheme for young new arrivals in sham shui po district to help young new arrivals familiarise themselves with hong kong 's lifestyle and facilitate their integration into the community .
the day camp offers seminars , games and recreation and sports activities , through which the co - organisers hope to enhance parent - child relations and to publicise fight crime and anti - corruption messages .
the day camp will last from $number am to $number pm . admission is free .
enrolment forms are now available at the sham shui po district office , $number / f west coast international building , $number un chau street , sham shui po , kowloon . the deadline for enrolment is $date . for enquiries , please call $number $number .
lantau link visitors centre opening hours extended the opening hours of the newly - established lantau link visitors centre will be extended during the mid - autumn festival .
from $date to $number ( monday to wednesday ) , the centre will be open from $number am to $number pm . normally it is closed at $number pm on weekdays .
the operating hours of the bus route 2 4 3 r running from lai chi kok mtr station in cheung sha wan to the centre will also be extended on these three days .
the last bus will leave cheung sha wan at $number pm and the centre at $number pm .
since its opening on $date this year , the visitors centre has attracted $number visitors .
the centre , set up by the new airport projects co - ordination office , is located at north west tsing yi interchange .
together with the adjacent viewing platform , the centre allows the general public a good appreciation of the tremendous challenges involved in the construction and maintenance of the lantau link as well as a magnificent view of the tsing ma bridge .
on display at the centre are models and photographs as well as samples of materials , such as cables and bolts , used in the construction .
public welcome to attend mini - concert members of the public can enjoy a mini - concert of chinese music on the night following the mid - autumn festival ( $date ) in front of the yamen building at the kowloon walled city park , one of the $number declared monuments in hong kong , .
the concert is $number in a series of four mini - concerts to be held in historical buildings to commemorate the year of heritage jointly organised by the antiquities advisory board , the lord wilson heritage trust and the antiquities and monuments office (amo) of the broadcasting , culture and sport bureau .
programmes for the night will include opening percussion , sheng - solo " chun melody " , percussion ensemble " the quarrelling ducks " , ruen trio " grapes are ripen " , dizi solo " selling vegetable " , gu - zheng ensemble " battling the typhoon " , dizi duet " quarrel " , pipa gu - zheng duet " ambush on all sides " and percussion and dizi ensemble " diu - diu tong " .
the pieces will be performed by an ensemble of the academy for performing arts .
the concert will start at $number pm in front of the yamen building at the kowloon walled city park at tung tsing road , kowloon city .
for further information , please contact the amo on $number $number .
mid - autumn festival lantern carnival for yau tsim mong members of the public are welcome to take part in a lantern carnival to be held at the piazza in the kowloon park on mid - autumn festival eve ( monday ) . the event is organised by the yau tsim mong mid - autumn carnival $number organising committee with assistance from the yau tsim mong district office and sponsorship from the yau tsim mong provisional district board and the provisional urban council .
the carnival , featuring demonstration of chinese arts and crafts , singing performances , variety show and lantern riddles , will last from $number pm to $number pm .
among the officiating guests are the yau tsim mong district officer , ms rebecca pun , and the yau tsim mong provisional district board chairman , mr chow chun - fai .
six consent applications approved in $date the lands department issued six pre - sale consents for $number residential units in six uncompleted developments last month ( $date ) .
the residential developments include two in yuen long and one each in sha tin , tseung kwan o , tsuen wan and kwai chung .
they are due for completion between this month and $date .
at the end of $date , $number applications for pre - sale consents involving $number residential units , and $number applications in respect of commercial developments and other uses , were pending approval .
these developments are located at various parts of the territory . the completion dates will be $date at the latest .
meanwhile , an application for consent to assign involving commercial units in central is being processed .
new water selling kiosk opens in western district the water supplies department will open a kiosk in western district tomorrow ( monday ) to sell water to non - ocean going vessels .
located at the waterfront to the west of western fire services street , the new kiosk will be open daily from $number am to noon and from $number pm to $number pm , including sundays and public holidays .
meanwhile , the temporary water selling kiosk , situated to the east of western fire services street , will be closed on the same day .
the water supplies department operates six other water selling kiosks along the waterfront of causeway bay , sai wan ho , aldrich bay , lai chi kok , yau ma tei and tuen mun .
suffrage the elections in may next year are a stepping stone that will set hong kong firmly on the road to the universal suffrage envisaged in the basic law , the chief secretary for administration , mrs anson chan , said today ( monday ) .
delivering her $number major speech after the transition at the american chamber of commerce , mrs chan said that set against the controversy over democratic reform in hong kong since the signing of the joint declaration $number , it was hardly surprising that there should have been vigorous debate about the arrangements which were announced and were now being discussed throughout the community .
" this debate was not only expected ; it is perfectly healthy .
" various groups in hong kong have different views as to whether our proposals for a combination of proportional representation for geographic constituencies ; corporate voting in our functional constituencies ; and block voting in the election committee is more or less democratic than other forms of election , " she said .
noting that there is no universal truth about the perfect election , mrs chan said that each society should be allowed to develop its own process , based on its own particular social , historical , political and cultural conditions .
" hong kong 's social , political and historical conditions are different to most , if not all . that a degree of care and attention is required , particularly in relation to the unique situation embodied in one country , two systems , and the specific intent and spirit of our constitutional imperatives , i.e. the requirements of the basic law . "
she quoted president jiang zemin at the inauguration of the special administrative region (sar) , who said : " a gradually improved democratic system suited to hong kong 's reality is an important guarantee for its social and political stability " and the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , at the same ceremony : " democracy is the hallmark of a new era for hong kong " .
mrs chan emphasised that there was no conspiracy to design a system that was hostile to democratic forces and heavily weighted in favour of china 's capitalist communists .
" that kind of comments only underestimates the role of the democrats in hong kong 's body politic , and impugns the integrity of those who take a different view of how best to enhance hong kong 's prosperity and stability and preserve our way of life . "
she told the audience that the government would launch an unprecedented effort to enrol a far greater number of eligible electors , and do all they can to ensure that many more people get out and vote .
" besides , the elections will be overseen by an independent electoral commission .
this will be an impartial and apolitical body whose jobs will be to ensure that the election is not only conducted openly and fairly , but is also seen to be so . "
according to mrs chan , the overall result would be a balanced legislature representative of the multi - coloured spectrum of opinion and aspirations of the community .
" if we don 't live up to that , you will soon hear about it . for one of the other heartening facts about post - transition hong kong has been the continuing good health of the press .
" the hong kong journalists ' association is publicly on record as seeing no change , and one of our leading journalism professors - a man normally quick to spot any media backsliding - told a seminar recently that he detected less , rather then more self - censorship after the handover , " mrs chan said .
she added that the free and unfettered flow of information was vital to the health of society and the strength of a service - based economy such as that in hong kong .
" one of the priorities of the sar government is the development of information technology and the profession has been allocated a functional constituency . it is self - evident that the development of sophisticated information technology hardware would be meaningless without the software , " she said .
turning to the importance of the rule of law , mrs chan said that it had remained resolutely and independently at the heart of hong kong 's way of life .
" the rule of law is the very essence of hong kong 's success and must be protected and preserved by all of us .
" the agreement reached last week between the chief justice and the lord chancellor to make available two of britain 's law lords to serve on the court of final appeal was universally applauded for the signal it sent about the independence of our judiciary and the quality of justice we can expect in the sar , " she said .
she rejected absolutely as misinformed and groundless claims that the sar government was conniving in an underhand way behind the scenes to subvert the rule of law in hong kong and replace it with " rule by law " .
" nobody must be allowed to take it away , for it is the rule of law which promises a safe environment for the individual , for families and for business to flourish .
" it is the best safeguard against arbitrary and overbearing government , " she added .
commenting on her recent short visit to shanghai to receive a professorship , mrs chan said that no one who had seen the huge physical and human progress that was evident everywhere in shanghai could doubt that china was truly moving with the times .
" we look forward to being part of an increasingly open , prosperous and powerful china that will play an increasingly prominent role on the world stage to the benefit of china , and the rest of the international community .
" the us china relationship is crucially important for the entire world and hong kong 's well being will be an important aspect of that relationship , " mrs chan said .
two lots sold for $ $number at land auction two government lots were sold for a total of $ $number at a public auction held by the lands department this ( monday ) afternoon .
$number lot , at the junction of wai fung street and hung shing street , ap lei chau , has an area of $number square metres . it was sold to qualifair company limited for $ $number , with bidding opened at $ $number .
the developer has to complete a gross floor area of not less than $number square metres on or before $date .
the site is intended for non - industrial use , excluding godown , hotel , service apartment and petrol filling station .
$number lot , at chuk kok , sai kung , has an area of $number square metres . it was bought by rillex investment limited for $ $number , with bidding opened at $ $number .
the developer has to complete a gross floor area of not less than $number square metres on or before $date .
the site is intended for private residential use , excluding service apartment .
the auction was conducted by government land agent , mr george chung , in the concert hall of the hong kong cultural centre , tsim sha tsui .
increased training capacity for construction industry substantial progress has been made in the working group on training and retraining for construction industry to cope with the anticipated growth in demand for labour arising from the expanded housing programmes and the major infrastructure projects in the next decade .
at $number meeting of the working group today ( monday ) , the major training bodies undertook to expand their current training programmes .
the executive director of the vocational training council (vtc) , professor lee ngok , at the meeting undertook to provide an additional $number places at the technician level for construction trainees in the $number academic year .
this represents a $number per cent increase over the current level . the council also plans to continue to increase its annual training capacity in the years ahead .
mr albert tong yat - chu , executive director of the construction industry training authority (cita) , undertook to provide with immediate effect $number more places at the craftsman level for its trainees annually . this amounts to an increase of $number per cent over the current level .
the increase in training capacity will focus on trades facing severe manpower shortage , including bar - bending , timber - form carpentry , brick - laying , plastering and wall and floor tiling .
meanwhile , the acting executive director of the employees retraining board (erb) , mr wong kam - kwok indicated that the board would gear up its capacity to meet the needs of the industry over the next few years .
the chairman of the working group and deputy secretary for education and manpower , mr matthew cheung kin - chung welcomed the support given by the three training institutions and the effort they made in tackling the manpower problem in the construction industry .
noting that an estimated figure of $number new immigrants from the mainland joined the trade by last year , mr cheung said the enhanced training programmes would cater for the needs of both local people and the new arrivals .
" members of the working group were pleased with the progress made so far . the commitment by the vtc , cita and the erb is a step forward in our joint effort to improve the existing training and retraining programmes for the construction industry , " he said .
" we will closely monitor the labour situation and take all appropriate measures to ensure an adequate supply of trained workers to meet the needs of the construction industry in the next decade , " he stressed .
unemployment and underemployment statistics the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate for the period may - $date was $number , and the underemployment rate was $number , according to the latest labour force statistics released today ( monday ) by the census and statistics department .
for the period $date , both the provisional seasonally adjusted unemployment rate and the provisional underemployment rate remained unchanged , at $number and $number respectively .
commenting on these figures , a government secretariat spokesman said that overall labour market conditions remained stable in recent months after further tightening earlier in the year .
comparing the latest three - month period $date with the period may - $date , both the unemployment and the underemployment situation remained stable in almost all the major sectors .
the spokesman also pointed out that overall labour demand remained on a strong uptrend amidst sustained growth in the economy .
in the three months ending $date , total employment had a further significant growth of $number over a year earlier , distinctly faster than that in total labour force , at $number .
during the period may - $date , the number of unemployed persons was estimated at $number , and the number of underemployed persons at $number .
the unemployment and underemployment statistics were obtained from a continuous general household survey .
the survey for may - $date covered a quarterly sample of some $number households or $number persons , selected scientifically to represent the land - based civilian non - institutional population in hong kong .
data were obtained from the survey by interviewing each member aged $number or over in the households sampled .
in the survey , the definitions used in measuring unemployment and underemployment follow closely those recommended by the international labour organisation .
being " seasonally adjusted " refers to the fact that unemployment rate has been adjusted for seasonal variations in the proportion of $number - time job - seekers in the labour force .
detailed analysis of labour force characteristics is given in the report on the general household survey which is published four times a year .
the next report covering the quarter ending $date will be on sale at the government publications centre at ground floor , low block , $number queensway , hong kong , around the end of $date .
press facility to mark ozone layer protection day the hong kong observatory (hko) and environmental protection department ( epd ) will demonstrate to the media tomorrow ( tuesday ) how hong kong plays a full part in the global effort to protect the ozone layer .
the event , organised to mark the international day for the preservation of the ozone layer , will feature the launching by hko of an ozone sonde , an equipment used for observing the ozone profiles over hong kong , and a presentation by epd on the enforcement of controls on ozone depleting substances in accordance with the full requirement of the montreal protocol on protection of the ozone layer .
a spokesman for the hko said the observatory began observing the ozone profiles over hong kong $date by using ozone sonde . the purpose is to obtain data in this part of the world , where such data are scarce , to help characterize the global distribution and transport of ozone .
as ozone in the atmosphere behaves as greenhouse gas , these data in turn can allow scientists to better understand the role of ozone on global climate and in the longer term regional climate .
these profiling operations constitute part of hong kong 's contribution to the world meteorological organisation 's global atmosphere watch programme .
ozone profiles are normally observed by the hko once a month .
however , between $number and $number , the hko also worked jointly with the polytechnic university to obtain ozone profiles over hong kong once a week . data from these profiles show that total ozone over hong kong has a maximum in spring / summer and a minimum in $date .
these results are consistent with those elsewhere in the tropics .
a spokesman for the epd said , " hong kong plays a full part and fulfills all obligations under the montreal protocol by enforcing the ozone protection ordinance with the support of the custom and excise department as well as the trade department . "
the protocol was $number signed by $number countries on $date , and now ratified by $number countries by its $number anniversary .
the global efforts in observing the ozone layer and controlling ozone depleting substances produced $number sign of positive results $date , when the measured concentrations of ozone depleting substance in lower atmosphere began to show a decline .
in hong kong , ozone depleting substances have been used mainly as refrigerants in central air conditioning plants and refrigerators .
as a result of the controls , many of the existing plants have been modified or replaced and all new plants are using non - ozone depleting refrigerants .
the local consumption of the ozone depleting substance have been successfully reduced from $number tonnes $date by $number per cent , to less than a weighted equivalent of $number tonnes of such substances $date .
questions and requests for additional information on the above should be addressed to dr c. m. tam of the hko on tel . $number $number , or mr p. m. leung of epd on $number $number .
caring visit by scouts from penal institutions a team of scouts from the $number hong kong group visited community and welfare organisations today ( monday ) in lai king area .
the visit was part of the community service by the scouts who were inmates from lai king training centre of the correctional services department (csd) .
the scouts on the visit presented home - made lanterns to the aged people and inmates of voluntary organisations showing care for them in the celebration of the coming mid - autumn festival .
the $number hong kong group was established $date . through scout training and activities , inmates learn to acquire self - reliance , self - discipline , confidence and sense of responsibilities , in turning over a new leaf , said a csd spokesman .
he said scouts from training centres of csd apart from community service also performed in ceremonial and charitable functions of the department .
the scouts and guides of the csd will perform in the musical rally on $date at the queen elizabeth stadium in wanchai .
proceeds from ticket sales for the musical event will be donated to charities .
air quality report for $date released the environmental protection department today ( monday ) released air quality report for $date .
the report said the air quality was poor on $date when the mong kok station recorded the highest nitrogen dioxide levels of the month , respectively $number and $number per cent higher than the relevant air quality objective of $number microgrammes per cubic metre .
the air quality objective for total suspended particulates were also violated by $number per cent on $date at the mong kok station .
the elevated air pollution levels on both days were due to high level of nitrogen dioxide and ozone , which were formed by the chemical reaction of vehicle emissions , such as nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons , in the presence of strong sunlight .
on these two days , the air pollution indices were $number and $number respectively .
the report includes the monitoring results from mong kok , central / western and kwai chung , which represent the following three important land use types in the territory : * locations close to road traffic in built - up urban areas , * combined commercial and residential districts , and * districts close to industrial areas .
air pollutants reported include sulphur dioxide , nitrogen dioxide , total suspended particulates , and the respirable suspended particulates .
all these pollutants can affect respiratory health in sufficient concentration .
these pollutants were originated from various sources , which include combustion , industrial and construction processes .
in terms of impact on local air quality , motor vehicle exhaust is the most important source of nitrogen dioxide and airborne particulate matter , especially the smaller respirable particles .
tunnels to remain fully open during mid - autumn festival the transport department announces today ( monday ) that the five government tunnels will remain fully open during mid - autumn festival on $date .
a spokesman for the department said no tunnel tubes would be closed for maintenance and radio broadcasts of safety measures would also be stepped up .
these are additional control and safety measures on tunnel operations during holidays .
the five government tunnels are aberdeen tunnel , lion rock tunnel , airport tunnel , shing mun tunnels and tseung kwan o tunnel .
the spokesman added that operators of the four private tunnels - cross harbour tunnel , western harbour crossing , tate 's cairn tunnel , and eastern harbour crossing - would take the same measures as far as they could arrange .
he said motorists also have a part to play in avoiding accidents inside tunnels by observing the following safety guidelines : * do not follow too close to the vehicle in front ; * observe the speed limit ; * keep in lane ; * observe traffic ahead ; * use dipped headlights ; * avoid wearing earphones or using mobile telephones when driving ; and * do not drink any alcohol before and / or when driving .
the spokesman urged motorists to drive with care and patience when driving inside tunnels or on open roads .
the agriculture and fisheries department 's country parks protection officer , mr edmond lam , said today ( monday ) that visitors should refrain from releasing any hung ming lantern and be extremely careful with barbecue fire and hand - held candle - lit lanterns .
according to mr lam , the annual mid - autumn festival is one of the high fire risk periods in the year . he therefore called on members of the public to be alert to the high fire risk when visiting country parks during the festival period .
it is an offence under the forests and countryside ordinance and the country parks ordinance to light fire illegally or to release a hung ming lantern in a country park or area of open countryside .
" any person found guilty of illegally lighting fire inside country parks could face a maximum fine of $ $number and one year 's imprisonment . "
fei ngo shan road blocked the transport department today ( monday ) urges the public not to go to fei ngo shan to celebrate the mid - autumn festival this year .
the appeal was made because a section of fei ngo shan road from tate 's pass to the police post has been closed for slope maintenance works and vehicles could not go via jat 's incline back to clear water bay road .
as such , the section of fei ngo shan road between pak fa lam and tate 's pass has been converted from one - way uphill to two - way traffic .
traffic on the road in the nights of $date ( mid - autumn festival day and the following day ) is expected to be very heavy .
should motorists want to go to fei ngo shan , they should use tsz wan shan road , shatin pass road and jat 's incline where they can go back to clear water bay road .
out - patient clinic service on holiday there would be no evening out - patient clinic service tomorrow ( tuesday ) , which is mid - autumn festival , the department of health announced today ( monday ) .
however , $number public holiday clinics will be operated from $number am to $number pm on wednesday ( $date ) , the day following mid - autumn festival .
they are violet peel health centre and shau kei wan jockey club clinic on hong kong island ; kwun tong jockey club health centre , robert black health centre and yau ma tei jockey club clinic in kowloon ; and lady trench polyclinic , shek wu hui jockey club clinic , yuen long jockey club health centre , lek yuen health centre and tuen mun clinic in the new territories .
further details on the opening of these clinics are available by calling the department of health 's central health education unit hotline $number $number .
response to enquiries on task force on housing in response to press enquiries , a government spokesman said today ( tuesday ) that the task force set up and chaired by the financial secretary to achieve the housing target of $number flats a year is an internal high - powered body within the administration .
while it has studied extensively the views expressed by relevant professional and trade bodies on this subject , the task force has not consulted any external think tanks including the hong kong policy research institute headed by mr paul yip kwok - wah .
drug abusers dropped by $number percent in $number half of $number the commissioner for narcotics , mrs clarie lo , told the action committee against narcotics (acan) today ( tuesday ) that the number of drug abusers reported in $number half of $number had dropped by $number percent to $number compared with $number reported in the corresponding period $date .
mrs lo said , " of the $number drug abusers reported to the narcotics division 's central registry of drug abuse , $number were aged under $number , or a decrease of $number percent compared with $number reported $date .
" indeed , the upward trend of drug abuse among young people we observed $date has been reversed in the past two years . "
also the number of female drug abusers reported in $number half of $number decreased by $number percent to $number compared with $number reported in the corresponding period $date .
on the reasons leading to the decline in the number of reported drug abusers , mrs lo said , " the invaluable public support to beat drugs has been the result of high profile anti - drugs preventive education and publicity programmes implemented by the government and voluntary agencies , coupled with effective law enforcement actions by the hong kong police force and the customs and excise department .
" take for example the expenditure on anti - drugs preventive education and publicity , this has increased from $ $number $date / $number to $ $number $date / $number , or an increase of $number percent .
" another example is the proactive approach taken by the narcotics division to conduct school talks for secondary forms and primary $number students .
the contents of the school talks are constantly updated to alert young persons of the harmful effects of drug abuse and to equip them with life skills to stay away from drug offers .
we shall be extending the school talks to primary $number students to sensitise them early about the importance of pursuing a healthy life and building up their confidence to say ' no ' to drugs .
" moreover , themes of tv and radio announcements in the public interest ( apis ) on anti - drug abuse will continue to target at young persons .
" we are nonetheless , not complacent with the decreasing abuse figures . we will continue to closely monitor the drug abuse trends and figures , to step up our preventive education campaign and to continue our vigorous efforts to stop the illicit trafficking of drugs . "
the major types of drug abused were heroin ( $number percent ) , cannabis ( $number percent ) , triazolam ( $number percent ) , methylamphetamine or commonly known as 'ice ' ( $number percent ) and cough medicine ( $number percent ) .
chaired by professor chen char - nie , the acan meeting today endorsed the statistics for $number half of $number compiled by the central registry of drug abuse and discussed the mid - term report on the evaluation study on the services of non - subvented voluntary drug treatment & rehabilitation agencies .
today 's meeting was attended by mr tan seck - kang , deputy director of the central narcotics bureau in singapore .
mr tan was appointed as a member of acan so as to enhance greater understanding and co - operation on anti - drugs policies and activities between singapore and hong kong .
during his stay in hong kong , mr tan would also visit a number of institutions and share his anti - drugs experience and exchange information with acan members and government officials .
immediately after the meeting , members of acan visited the narcotics bureau in the police headquarters to have a $number - hand look at the work of the bureau .
they were briefed by the chief superintendent of the narcotics bureau , mr henrique koo sii - hong , on the investigation of drug offences and liaison with overseas drug enforcement agencies .
members were informed that the work of the narcotics bureau is further reinforced by each police region and district which has its own specialised drug enforcement unit targeting local levels of drug trafficking , distribution and abuse .
this enforcement strategy has produced outstanding successes in terms of seizures and arrests both at home and overseas .
mr koo said , " hong kong 's law enforcement agencies put constant pressure on the illegal drugs trade .
hong kong is no longer considered to be a major transit centre for no. $number heroin bound for europe or north america . "
sti to attend apec sme ministerial meeting the secretary for trade and industry , miss denise yue , will leave today ( tuesday ) to attend $number asia - pacific economic co - operation (apec) ministerial meeting on small and medium enterprises ( smes ) to be held in ottawa , canada on this thursday and friday ( $date , $number ) .
the meeting will review the framework for apec sme activities which will help apec focus on its sme work and identify areas which require further action .
the meeting will discuss the existing and new initiatives in the five sme priority areas : information access , financing access , market access , technology access and human resources access .
ministers from apec economies will exchange views on where apec should put its efforts to foster apec sme development and growth .
they will also exchange views with representatives from the private sector of the apec economies on issues related to smes .
mr denis lee , chairman of the small and medium enterprises committee , mr kenneth fung , winner of the young industrialist award $number , and ms marina wong , president of the hong kong women professionals and entrepreneurs association , will attend the meeting as representatives of the private sector in hong kong and will participate in the discussion with ministers .
mr donald tong , director , hong kong economic and trade affairs , toronto , and mr sidney chan , assistant director - general of industry , will also attend the meeting .
this is $number apec ministerial meeting on sme .
$number three meetings were held in osaka , japan in $date , adelaide , australia in $date , and cebu , philippines in $date respectively .
apec comprises $number member economies : australia , brunei darussalam , canada , chile , china , hong kong china , indonesia , japan , korea , malaysia , mexico , new zealand , papua new guinea , the philippines , singapore , chinese taipei , thailand and the united states of america .
$number convicted pollution cases in $date a total of $number convictions were recorded in the courts in $date for breaching anti - pollution legislation enforced by the environmental protection department .
of these cases , $number were convictions made under the water pollution control ordinance (wpco) , $number under the noise control ordinance (nco) , $number under the air pollution control ordinance (apco) and $number under the waste disposal ordinance (wdo) .
the fines ranged from $ $number to $ $number .
china state construction engineering corporation was fined for $ $number twice last month for using powered mechanical equipment without a valid construction noise permit .
asia provides unlimited economic opportunities the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( wednesday ) that unlimited economic opportunities will present themselves in the coming decades as asia 's economy continues to grow and as china becomes one of the largest economies in the world .
addressing $number annual world economic development congress this morning , mr tung called on the international business community to take advantage of these opportunities .
and to do this , where else should the international business community be located but right here in hong kong , he said .
mr tung noted that the east asia region which includes china , japan , korea , taiwan , hong kong and asean countries could have an economy larger than that of nafta or the european union soon $date .
" this region , already well known for its high savings rate , could produce us $ $number to us $ $number in additional annual savings than it does today ; thereby becoming one of the largest capital markets in the world .
" at the same time , the region will serve as the largest user of capital in the world .
asia development bank estimates that by the year $number , the region will have spent almost us $ $number in investments in infrastructure projects alone , " he said .
mr tung said that this meant that asia might well emerge as the world 's largest producer , capital lender , and capital borrower , as well as the world 's largest consumer market .
as for hong kong , the sar will continue to provide a friendly business environment and a world - class service to back up international corporations doing businesses in hong kong , in china or throughout asia .
" our chinese heritage , western management style , and ability to speak english and chinese have placed hong kong in the best position to provide the international business community with the people , the knowledge , and the skills necessary to run successful business in china and the rest of asia , " he said .
mr tung said that his vision of hong kong would guide the special administrative region government in the next five years and that the international business community would have an active role to play in turning this vision into a reality .
looking into $date , he sees hong kong as a leading financial and services centre , remaining at the forefront of the new age with cutting - edge new technology and new industries , and being a truly international and cosmospolitan city which combines the strengths of the east and the west .
mr tung also sees hong kong , as a special administrative region , making significant contributions to the modernisation of china and moving forward with china as she emerges as a leader among the community of nations . he also wants to see an increasingly affluent and well - educated population here , proud of its chinese heritage and confident in its destiny and global outlook .
the chief executive said that in his $number policy address , to be delivered on $date , he would be setting out a programme to tackle a wide range of matters close to the hearts of hong kong people .
to meet challenges which lie ahead , mr tung said hong kong would be sticking to the free market approach that had brought it prosperity in the past and aiming to improve the competitiveness of its business environment .
" we will be investing heavily in our information infrastructure , our education and our expertise in this field .
we aim to give every child in hong kong an education of the highest quality , to improve their language skills and their ability to use new technologies .
" we will be speeding up land formation , extending our mass transit railway system and other infrastructure , and increasing the pace of home construction to $number units per annum to achieve a home ownership rate of $number per cent within ten years .
" we are setting up provident funds and extending care for the elderly in order that our old people are provided with a sense of security , worthiness , and belonging , " he said .
on hong kong 's political development , mr tung pointed out that the progress to be achieved in ten years from $number in terms of democratic process would be far more comprehensive and far - reaching than what it had received under $number years of colonial rule .
" we as a community is very much committed to a democratic process and we are moving forward . we are moving forward in accordance to the basic law , which is our constitution .
" and i have every confidence that if we move forward in this way , the society in hong kong will continue to sustain its economic development , its fundamental rights of freedom and the rights that are accorded to us .
we are very confident that this structure is particularly suited for us here in hong kong , " he stressed .
conceding that the international community 's perception of china is important to the future of hong kong , mr tung noted that many in the west tend to define china through specific human rights issues while others feel a sense of threat in china 's rising prosperity .
he said : " what is happening in china is not a change to a monolithic giant , but a transformation of the lives of $number men and women .
they are being lifted out of poverty , given education and homes , and given opportunities that they have never had before .
" china 's life expectancy rate , child mortality rate as well as adult literacy rate have improved significantly .
the percentage of people living at or below subsistence level in china decreased from $number per cent $date to single digit today . "
mr tung said that this transformation process is one that " warms the heart of everyone concerned for basic human condition " .
he went on to say that from a practical point of view , with a population of $number people and a commitment to vastly improve the standard of living of people through a market economy , china needs social stability as well as stability and peace in asia and around the world .
" like many other developing nations , the strengthening of the military is not a tool for expansion but a declaration of independence and a political statement to the international audience , " he said .
" this is particularly important bearing in mind the $number years of humiliation china has gone through in her recent history , " he added .
ce 's speech at world economic development congress following is the full text of the speech by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , at $number world annual economic development congress this ( wednesday ) morning : i am greatly honoured to be invited to speak in front of this distinguished gathering of $number annual world economic development congress today .
this congress convenes the world 's top business , government and financial leaders from asia , europe , the americas and africa and is being held immediately prior to the imf / world bank annual meeting .
may i take this opportunity to welcome all of you and to wish you and the congress every success .
" some of you were in hong kong two and a half months ago to witness an important day in the history of hong kong , and china .
$date was a day to which we in hong kong had looked forward to with pride and with confidence .
pride in that we are at last reunited with china , and have become masters of our destiny . and confidence because we know we can build a better future for our children and for our grandchildren .
" for the last two and a half months , all the three branches of our political structure , the executive , the legislative , and the judiciary have been functioning normally .
despite the financial turmoils in southeast asia , our economy continues to expand .
the lifestyle to which we are all accustomed to is being maintained , and indeed , since $date there have been $number demonstrations .
and for the time being , i am still in a commercial building where my office is located until i move to a permanent site .
all the other tenants of the building think our office is really a nuisance because of all the demonstrations that carries on every day .
" we , who live and work in hong kong , continue to work hard , very hard , for an even more successful and prosperous future .
recent surveys have shown that confidence level continues to rise .
surveys done by the hong kong university have shown that the confidence level is $number per cent .
what is the basis for this optimism ?
" the fundamental reason of our optimism is in our trust in our country , china .
it should be remembered that the " one country , two systems " concept is not originated from hong kong or london .
it was a concept originated from china , taking into account the fundamental interest of china as a nation and chinese as a people .
the reason is simple : if hong kong succeeds under " one country , two systems " , we can contribute towards china 's modernisation goals .
in addition , the feasibility of different social , economic , and political systems within one country is being tested .
success in hong kong can serve as a significant step towards the greater and final objective of the re - unification of the entire nation .
these are very important objectives for china as a nation .
" why else am i confident of hong kong 's future ?
china has undergone dramatic changes $date .
the economy has been growing at close to $number per cent per annum .
the energy and vitality in china today is for everyone to see .
this is a tribute to the hard work and vitality of the chinese people and the quality of china 's leaders today .
these leaders have the ability and the acumen , in my view , to steer china successfully into $date .
it is this ability and acumen that will ensure the successful implementation of " one country , two systems " as we move forward into the new century .
" china 's leadership is totally committed to the " one country , two systems " concept and want to make sure this is successful .
they have complete faith in the people of hong kong to make this work .
i can testify to this in my nine - and - a - half months ' experience .
they have demonstrated flexibility , understanding , co - operation and accommodation every where .
" but what else are the reasons of my confidence and the reasons of the confidence of hong kong people ?
thanks to the solid foundation hong kong has in its finances , its civil service and , fundamentally , in the rule of law , we are well placed to develop our role in a dynamic world .
" during the turbulent days recently in other southeast asian financial markets , you saw how solid our finances and our fiscal policy are today .
the fundamentals in hong kong remain extremely strong .
our economy continues to grow steadily .
next year , our new airport opens , greatly improving our quality as an aviation and service hub , and we are following it up with a massive programme of rail and other infrastructure development to further improve our efficiency and productivity .
" the efficiency and productivity of hong kong 's civil service is respected by our community and by those who come to do business with us .
their enthusiasm and commitment to making hong kong an even better place in the next century is a very valuable asset to all of us here in hong kong .
" the rule of law underpins our free market , the work of our civil service and the quality of our community .
we will maintain our legal system , grounded , like many in the western world , in the common law .
the rule of law has kept our society open , fair and law abiding .
we will maintain effective law enforcement , especially against corruption , and will maintain that no one , chief executive included , is above the law .
" additionally , we will resolutely maintain our conservative and prudent fiscal management style , low and predictable tax structure as well as a level playing field for every one .
we will continue to encourage the contribution of the foreign community and maintain the characteristics of a leading international city .
alongside all specific reasons , my confidence in hong kong 's future is grounded in the spirit of the people of hong kong .
what we have achieved within my lifetime has been staggering .
what we still hope to achieve together is no less ambitious .
our experienced entrepreneurs and investors , and the high proportion of our children now going on to technical colleges and universities , give us the talent and the drive to keep on succeeding in whatever the world holds out there for us .
on $date , i will be delivering my $number policy address .
i will be setting out a programme to tackle a wide range of matters close to the hearts of hong kong people .
hong kong has reason to be proud of its achievements over the past $number years , but we have to be alert to the challenges which lie ahead .
we face keen competition in trade and services , and our competitiveness is being threatened by inflation .
we have to meet the challenges arising from a growing and ageing population , satisfy the demand for more and better housing , and deal with employment dislocation due to restructuring of the economy and address the needs of the poor .
we will be sticking to the free market approach that has brought us prosperity in the past and aiming to improve the competitiveness of our business environment .
" as the world moves rapidly into the information era , we will be investing heavily in our information infrastructure , our education and our expertise in this field .
we aim to give every child in hong kong an education of the highest quality , to improve their language skills and their ability to use new technologies .
" we will be speeding up land formation , extending our mass transit railway system and other infrastructure , and increasing the pace of home construction to $number units per annum to achieve a home ownership rate of $number per cent within ten years .
" we are setting up provident funds and extending care for the elderly in order that our old people are provided with a sense of security , worthiness , and belonging .
" in addition to the above , we are also moving forward with our political development in accordance to the basic law .
in may next year , the elections for $number full legislature , which will serve for a period of two years , will be held .
members of all political parties and independent individuals are welcomed to take part .
every adult permanent resident who is eligible to vote will vote , i hope , and there are $number eligible voters .
there will be $number members to the legislature , all elected directly or indirectly .
$number , in fact , will be elected directly ; $number elected indirectly .
" the election for $number legislative council will be held by the year $number and for a term of four years .
$number legislative council election which is also for a four - year term , will be held in the year $number .
each election , the number of directly elected seats will be increased so that in the election for $number legislature $date , $number per cent will be directly elected and $number per cent through functional constituencies .
" as you all know , hong kong has never had a single voice in the selection of the governor during $number years of colonial rule .
under the basic law , hong kong people will have an increasingly larger voice in the selection of the chief executive .
i myself was selected in $date last year by a committee of $number people , all of whom reside in hong kong .
this $number people represents hong kong society from different walks of life including businessmen , professionals such as doctors , lawyers , architects , labour unionists , social workers , politicians , religious leaders and etc , etc. $number chief executive , serving $number will be selected by a similar committee , except the committee will be enlarged to $number people .
" in fact , the progress we will achieve in $number years from $number in terms of democratic process will be far more comprehensive and far - reaching than what we received under $number years of colonial rule .
" what about $date ?
the basic law provides that further democratic evolution will depend on the wish of hong kong people and the environment at that time with universal suffrage being the ultimate objective .
is a period of $number years too long for this evolutionary process ? a process that is critical to hong kong 's future , a process the success or failure of which we in hong kong , and no one else , will bear the full consequences .
there are those who believe that the pace of democratisation is too slow .
i believe we have struck the right balance as we move forward .
" let me say this , that we as a community is very much committed to a democratic process and we are moving forward .
we are moving forward in accordance to the basic law , which is our constitution , a piece of document which was produced after four years of consultations between people of hong kong and people on the mainland of china .
and i have every confidence if we move forward in this way , the society in hong kong will continue to sustain its economic development , its fundamental rights of freedom and the rights that are accorded to us .
we are very confident that this structure is particularly suitable for us here in hong kong .
" it is important that i speak a word on china because your perception of china is important to the future of hong kong .
many in the west today tend to define china through specific human rights issues . others feel a sense of threat in china 's rising prosperity .
we in hong kong feel differently .
what is happening in china is not a change to a monolithic giant , but a transformation of the lives of $number men and women .
they are being lifted out of poverty , given education and homes , and given opportunities that they have never had before .
china 's life expectancy rate , child mortality rate as well as adult literacy rate have improved significantly .
the percentage of people living at or below subsistence level in china decreased from $number per cent $date to single digit today .
the scale of transformation exceeds anything that has ever happened over so short a period , and it is happening to men and women like ourselves .
i know there are those in the west who are concerned about human rights and religious freedom in china .
i urge you to go and see for yourselves how much china has done in these respects . you will come away like many others , surprised and impressed .
" from a practical point of view , with a population of $number people and a commitment to vastly improve the standard of living of people through a market economy . china needs social stability .
china also needs stability and peace in asia and around the world .
like many other developing nations , the strengthening of the military is not a tool for expansion but a declaration of independence and a political statement to the international audience .
this is particularly important if you bear in mind the $number years of humiliation china has gone through in her recent history .
" it is not just china which is expanding economically .
indeed , the whole of asia has come a long way .
the east asia region which includes china , japan , korea , taiwan , hong kong and asean countries could have an economy larger than that of nafta or the european union soon $date .
despite the recent turmoil in the financial market in the south east asia , i am confident that the economy in this region will continue to expand successfully .
" this region , already well known for its high savings rate , could produce us $ $number to us $ $number in additional annual savings than it does today ; thereby becoming one of the largest capital markets in the world .
" at the same time , the region will serve as the largest user of capital in the world .
asia development bank estimates that by the year $number , the region will have spent almost us $ $number in investments in infrastructure projects alone .
" what does that mean ?
asia may well emerge as the world 's largest producer , capital lender , and capital borrower , as well as the world 's largest consumer market .
asia 's economic and political impact on the world in the decades to come cannot be overlooked .
" imagine the unlimited economic opportunities which will present themselves in the coming decades as this region 's economy continues to grow and as china becomes one of the largest economies in the world . where should the international business community be located to take advantage of these opportunities in this region ?
where indeed , but right here in hong kong .
" we will continue to provide a friendly business environment and a world - class service to backup international corporations doing businesses in hong kong , in china or throughout asia .
our chinese heritage , western management style , and ability to speak english and chinese have placed hong kong in the best position to provide the international business community with the people , the knowledge and the skills necessary to run successful business in china and the rest of asia .
" the confidence level in hong kong has been steadily increasing even before the transition .
for a number of years , our population has been growing at approximately $number per annum , higher than any metropolis in the world .
this trend is continuing .
part of the growth is as a result of legal migrants from china , part of the growth is , of course , natural birth .
but tens and thousands who have previously emigrated overseas are coming back to hong kong . they sense the opportunity , they feel the pride and they want to participate in the making of history .
" those of you who are living in hong kong already understand the secrets of hong kong 's success . to those of you who are visiting us during this historic time , i urge you to return to hong kong , as frequently as you can , to see for yourselves how we are doing , and to play a part in what will undoubtedly be the story of our continuing success .
" as we lift our sight above the horizon into $date : * i see hong kong as a leading financial and services centre ; * i see hong kong remaining at the forefront of the new age with cutting - edge new technology and new industries ; * i see a truly international and cosmopolitan city which combines the strengths of the east and the west ; * i see hong kong , as a special administrative region , making significant contributions to the modernisation of china and moving forward with china as she emerges as a leader among the community of nations ; and * i see an increasingly affluent and well - educated population , proud of our chinese heritage , confident in our destiny and global in outlook .
" this vision will guide the special administrative region government in the next five years .
the international business community will have an active role to play in turning this vision into a reality ; and i look forward to your continuous support in our joint endeavours .
sar govt accords high priority to education the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( wednesday ) that the sar government accords a high priority to education and is determined to invest more in this area and to create a new education scene .
mr tung met a diverse group of students who have excelled in different areas at a tea reception held at the former government house today .
he said : " the quality and future development of our community lies in education .
in my policy address to be delivered next month , i will announce various new measures , and will set out in detail the way forward for education in hong kong .
" in the next few years , the government will make vigorous efforts to improve the existing education system , in order to provide quality and balanced education for our next generation .
i hope my proposals will have the support of the public and the education sector . "
the group comprised both able - bodied and disabled students who excelled in this year 's hong kong advanced level examination and hong kong certificate of education examination .
also invited were students who had contributed much of their time and energy to community service or had performed brilliantly in non - academic fields .
congratulating the students on their good work , mr tung said that their achievements were a result of hard work , of both themselves and the education sector .
" i hope they will continue to work hard , develop their own potential to the full , and make a useful contribution to hong kong and our motherland , " he said .
" i am particularly glad to see some disabled and newly arrived children overcome various difficulties in achieving good results . this also shows that our education system is able to provide our children and youngsters with equal opportunities , " he added .
they are all from different background and many of them are successful and outstanding in different ways . i was also happy to see new immigrants who have achieved and overcome whatever difficulties they have to face , to do what they had done . as well as as you have seen the number of the handicapped who really have come through very well . it shows that if you put your heart into it , into anything , you can get it done .
education is very important to hong kong - - not only could give every person the opportunity , equal opportunity , to participate in our community , but it is important for our future , for our economic vitality , for our competitiveness . so the sarg will be doing all it can to support education , including whatever resource that is necessary . i will be making some points with the help of joseph ( secretary for education and manpower ) and helen ( director of education ) when i deliver my policy address on $date .
of course education is not something that the government alone can fulfil , it is up to the whole community , the parents , the teachers and all the educators . i think we are very fortunate , we are there , we are going to move forward and create an even better hong kong .
thank you very much .
education day to mark the new school year special church services to mark the start of the new school year will be held on sunday ( $date ) which has been designated education day .
$date population estimate the estimated $date population of hong kong was $number , according to figures released today ( thursday ) by the census and statistics department .
there was an increase of $number persons as compared with the $date population estimate , representing a growth rate of $number per cent .
the balance of arrivals and departures showed a net inflow of some $number persons during $date , constituting $number per cent of the population growth .
during the same period , there were $number births and $number deaths in hong kong .
the natural increase ( i.e. births less deaths ) thus amounted to $number , accounting for $number per cent of the population growth .
clean audit report on exchange fund submitted to fs the external auditors appointed to audit the statement of assets and liabilities of the exchange fund as at the end of $date has given a clean audit report on the statement , mr donald tsang , the financial secretary , announced today ( thursday ) .
in accordance with the agreed minute of the sino - british joint liaison group on the question of the arrangements for the transfer of the exchange fund of hong kong ( " agreed minute " ) , price waterhouse has been appointed to audit the statements of assets and liabilities of the exchange fund as at $date and $date .
in $date this year , price waterhouse gave an unqualified opinion on the statement of assets and liabilities as at $date .
the agreed minute also stipulates that the audited accounts of the exchange fund for the period $date shall be examined by the hong kong special administrative region government .
in accordance with this requirement , price waterhouse has conducted an audit of the statement of assets and liabilities of the exchange fund as at $date , and in their report just submitted to the financial secretary , they have concluded that the statement gives a true and fair view , in all material respects , of the state of affairs of the exchange fund as at that date .
the audited figures are the same as those contained in the balance sheet of the exchange fund published by the hong kong monetary authority on $date .
employment and guidance centre for new arrivals opens in keeping with the changing social and economic needs of hong kong , the labour department is committed to improving its existing employment services , the acting commissioner for labour , mr lee kai - fat , said today ( thursday ) .
speaking at the opening ceremony of the employment and guidance centre for new arrivals , mr lee said that as the number of new arrivals from the mainland is on the increase , it is timely to enhance the employment services offered to new arrivals .
" the aim of setting up the employment and guidance centre is to help new arrivals secure employment as soon as possible , " he added .
" it is also aimed at assisting them to have a better understanding of the local economic situation so that they can integrate into the local community and contribute to the economic development of hong kong . "
mr lee said that the labour department is committed to providing a quality employment service to new arrivals and helping them secure jobs best suited to their abilities .
the employment and guidance centre for new arrivals is located at the $number floor , marina house , $number hing man street , shau kei wan .
the centre will serve as a one - stop shop to provide new immigrants with comprehensive employment services .
it is equipped with a career information library where reference materials on different trades and industries , local job market and job - search skills are kept for public viewing .
briefings will be provided to familiarise the new arrivals with interview skills , general working conditions and employment practices in hong kong as well as the statutory and contractual rights in employment .
personalised job matching services will also be provided and where necessary , job seekers will be advised of training and retraining opportunities to enhance their employability .
new arrivals who are interested in the services offered by the centre are welcome to call $number $number for enquiry .
operators of non - local courses are reminded to register operators of non - local courses are reminded to register with the non - local registry ( registry ) of the education department under the non - local higher and professional education ( regulation ) ordinance ( ordinance ) .
the ordinance aims at protecting the consumers by guarding against the marketing of substandard non - local courses conducted in hong kong .
under the legislation , all courses conducted in hong kong leading to the award of non - local higher academic or professional qualifications must apply for registration .
courses conducted in collaboration with a specified local institution of higher education may apply for exemption from registration if the executive head of the local institution certifies that the courses meet the standard required for registration .
a senior education officer , mrs fanny lam , today ( thursday ) said : " operators of existing non - local courses and those commencing before $date should submit the duly completed applications for registration to the registry by $date . "
they should secure the registration or exemption status before the end of the six - month grace period on $date , she said .
" meanwhile , operators of non - local courses commencing on or after $date must secure their registration or exemption status before conducting the courses in hong kong , " mrs lam added .
to ensure sufficient time for the registry to process all applications for new courses , operators must submit their application at least four months before the commencement of course , she said .
the registry will not be held responsible for courses not being registered on time because of the failure on the course operators ' part to submit applications before the suggested deadline , mrs lam said .
she reminded the operators that it was an offence to conduct courses without registration or exemption .
they are liable on conviction to a fine of $ $number and imprisonment for two years .
mrs lam urged the operators to submit their applications as soon as possible .
exporter fined for giving false information a spokesman for the customs and excise department today ( thursday ) said that it was a serious offence to furnish false information for export licence application .
the reminder was made after an export firm and a garment manufacturer were fined a total of $ $number at kwun tong magistracy today after each had pleaded guilty to four counts of furnishing false information regarding the origin of goods in export licence application .
the court heard that on $date , income glory investment ltd submitted four applications for export licences to the trade department covering a total of $number pieces of men 's cotton woven pants , worth more than $ $number , for export to spain .
in support of each application , the firm furnished the information that its associate company , paklayton ltd was the manufacturer of the goods in hong kong . an investigation by officers of the customs and excise department revealed that the goods were in fact manufactured in china .
in order to obtain the requisite export licences to cover the goods for export , both companies falsely declared in the export licence applications that the goods were of hong kong origin . the spokesman stressed that officers of the department would step up their enforcement actions to track down such malpractice to protect the commercial reputation of hong kong and to ensure that the confidence of its trading partners in hong kong 's textiles control system would not be undermined by some dishonest businessmen .
" members of the public having information on any suspected origin fraud activities could call the hotline $number $number , " he added .
restaurant reminded not to serve endangered species dishes restaurants are today ( thursday ) reminded not to serve dishes of endangered species to customers .
the reminder was issued by an agriculture and fisheries department (afd) conservation officer , mr cheung chi - sun , after a restaurant was convicted recently and fined $ $number for possessing whale meat without a licence .
the case came to light in $date this year when some whale meat ( $number grams ) was found in a tsim sha tsui restaurant by afd officers . the case was heard in south kowloon magistracy earlier this month and the restaurant was fined for possessing meat of endangered species without licence .
" it has come to our attention that some restaurants in hong kong offer dishes of endangered species , " said mr cheung .
" under the animals and plants ( protection of endangered species ) ordinance , it is an offence to possess or to offer for sale any endangered species or their parts , including meat and skin , except under and in accordance with a licence issued by afd . "
he reiterated that the control applies to any item which is claimed or held out by any person or advertisement to be an endangered species . an offender is liable to a maximum penalty of $ $number fine and two years ' imprisonment upon conviction .
mr cheung pointed out that specimens such as crocodile meat , pangolin meat and owls might sometimes be offered illegally for food purpose . restaurant operators are therefore reminded that they should not serve any dish of endangered species without a licence and afd had advised them on the matter through circular letters .
he took the opportunity to urge members of the public to refrain from ordering these dishes and to report any illegal activities on endangered species to afd 's endangered species protection section on $number $number .
ce meets financial leaders from overseas the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , met the president of the world bank group , mr james wolfensohn , today ( friday ) as hong kong gears up for the world bank / international monetary fund annual meetings .
he also met the australian treasurer , mr peter costello , and the german federal minister of finance , dr theodor waigel , later in the afternoon .
mr tung said that the choice of hong kong as the venue for the world bank / international monetary fund annual meetings had reflected international confidence in the territory and underlined hong kong 's role as an international financial centre .
" hong kong 's success story is not one about luck but about hong kong people 's tenacity to advance .
to meet the challenges ahead , we are vigorously upgrading our human resources and our physical and economic structure .
" we are determined to maintain hong kong as a premier international financial centre with a top - class workforce and state - of - the - art technology to meet the challenges of the next millennium , " the chief executive said .
funding for contribution to adf approved by plc a government spokesman today ( friday ) welcomes the finance committee of the provisional legislative council 's funding approval for hong kong 's contribution of us $ $number to $number replenishment of the asian development fund (adf) or adf vii over four years .
as requested by the asian development bank (adb) , hong kong will make payments over four years evenly , i.e. a contribution of about us $ $number each year $number .
adb was founded $date . it is an international development finance institution for the asian and pacific region .
hong kong has been a member $date .
adf was established in $date by the adb to provide concessionary lending to the most needy members countries .
on $date , the chief executive in council decided that hong kong should contribute its full share of us $ $number to adf vii .
the spokesman said : " hong kong 's contribution is a solid demonstration of our support of the adb in its efforts to help the most needy members to achieve sustainable growth and development .
" it is also consistent with our overall stance to support development efforts in the region . "
hong kong contributed to the three previous replenishments $date , $number and $number .
korea has pledged to contribute us $ $number , taipei , china us $ $number and malaysia us $ $number .
indonesia has not been requested by the adb to make contributions but has voluntarily pledged to donate us $ $number .
lantau link visitors centre closed on sunday afternoon the lantau link visitors centre and the viewing platform at the north west tsing yi interchange will be closed from $number pm to $number pm on sunday ( $date ) .
the service of the kmb route 2 4 3 r running from cheung sha wan to the centre will be suspended during this period .
the last bus will leave cheung sha wan at $number am and the centre at $number pm respectively .
the car park adjacent to the centre will be closed for several hours .
all cars will have to leave the car park by $number pm and no car will be allowed to enter the car park after $number am .
the visitors centre and the car park will be reopened after $number pm .
members of the public who wish to view the lantau link from a vantage point this sunday afternoon may visit the airport core programme exhibition centre at ting kau which is open from $number am to $number pm .
traffic arrangements for world bank / imf annual meetings the transport department today ( friday ) reminds the public that special traffic arrangements have been implemented in wan chai to facilitate the holding of $number world bank / international monetary fund annual meetings .
(a) traffic arrangements the east and west bridges leading to the entrance of the hong kong convention and exhibition centre (hkcec) phase ii have been closed to all traffic , except authorised vehicles with permits , until $number pm on $date .
fleming road flyover northbound between lockhart road and harbour road is restricted to buses and taxis only .
all other vehicles are temporarily prohibited to use the northbound carriageway of the flyover .
at the same time , the u - turning movement from fleming road northbound to southbound at its junction with convention avenue is banned .
motorists can route via lockhart road , arsenal street , gloucester road and fleming road or tonnochy road .
motorists on fleming road heading for wan chai north are advised to use gloucester road , o ' brien road , lockhart road and marsh road .
motorists on hennessy road can use either arsenal street or marsh road for wan chai north .
convention avenue and harbour road , both sections between fleming road and fenwick street , have been re - routed from two - way to one - way eastbound and one - way westbound respectively .
during the re - routing , right - turn movements for all vehicles from convention avenue onto fleming road southbound and then onto harbour road westbound are allowed , forming a simple gyratory system in a clockwise direction through convention avenue , fleming road and harbour road .
vehicles from central are advised to use gloucester road and fleming road or tonnochy road for wan chai north .
vehicles on fenwick pier street will be diverted via fenwick pier street , convention avenue , fleming road and harbour road eastbound .
vehicles on convention avenue westbound heading for central will be diverted to route via fleming road and harbour road westbound .
the restrictions on fleming road flyover , fleming road , covention avenue and harbour road will be lifted from $number am on $date .
(b) temporary clearways arrangements picking up and setting down of passengers are allowed on the following sections of roads in wan chai from $number pm on $date to $number am on $date : * the northern kerbside lane of harbour road from its junction with fleming road to the slip road leading to hkcec ; * the lay - by on harbour road outside shui on centre and wan chai tower ; and * the southern kerbside lane of convention avenue outside grand hyatt hotel and new world harbour view hotel .
(c) public transport arrangements on public transport , the bus terminus , taxi stand and coach parking spaces at hkcec phase ii transport interchange have been suspended until $number pm on $date .
the terminus of china motor bus (cmb) route no . 2 5 m is temporarily relocated to wan chai ferry pier bus terminus .
a2 on its kowloon bound journeys has been diverted to operate via fleming road , wan chai ferry pier bus terminus , fleming road , harbour road westbound , convention avenue , fleming road and harbour road eastbound before resuming its normal routeings .
a2 on harbour road eastbound near hkcec is relocated to harbour road westbound outside central plaza .
the existing bus stop for route nos . $number , $number , $number and $number on harbour road westbound outside causeway centre is relocated to the lay - by outside china resources building .
the affected bus routes will resume normal services from $number am on $date .
citybus route nos . 3 7 b , $number , $number and $number , cmb route nos . 9 4 x and $number on their journeys to southern district will be diverted from $date to $number to operate via hennessy road , fenwick street southbound , johnston road eastbound before resuming their normal routeings .
the existing bus stops for these bus routes on sections of hennessy road and fleming road will be relocated to $number and $number johnston road .
(d) suspension of parking spaces the metered parking spaces on the northern kerbside lane of lockhart road between fleming road and stewart road have been suspended temporarily until $number am on $date .
fee revisions for building related regulations fee prescribed under a new registration system for building contractors under the building ( administration ) ( amendment ) ( no.2 ) regulation $number is gazetted today ( friday ) .
a government spokesman said that the regulation was made by the chief executive in council to prescribe mainly fees relating to the new registration system for general building contractors and specialist contractors , which are planned for implementation in $date and $date respectively .
at present , contractors are classified into registered contractors and registered ventilation contractors .
under the new registration system , contractors are better classified into registered general building contractors and registered specialist contractors who in turn are further classified into different types of specialist contractors .
" by setting out clear requirements such as their qualifications , competence and experience , the new registration system aims at ensuring the standards of registered building contractors , " the spokesman added .
at the same time , the building ( administration ) ( amendment ) ( no.3 ) regulation $number and the building ( oil storage installations ) ( amendment ) regulation $number are also gazetted .
these regulations will revise the fees for the grant and renewal of an oil storage installation licence , the inspection of completed building works or street works and the provision of a certified copy of a building plan .
the spokesman said that the fees under the three amendment regulations are all set at levels sufficient to recover the full costs of providing the services .
the fees relating to the registration of specialist contractors are planned to take effect from $date to tie in with the implementation of the new registration system . the other fee items will be effective from $date .
the three amendment regulations will be tabled in the provisional legislative council on $date .
consultants to study building inspection plan the buildings department will commission a consultancy firm to study the engineering issues of the building safety inspection scheme (bsis) and to make recommendations on its mandatory implementation .
a spokesman for the department said today ( friday ) that the firm would be required to draft a code of practice on the standard of inspection , assessment and repair of buildings for use by building professionals .
" the code of practice will focus on three commonest problems of building safety - the integrity of external wall finishes , the structural stability and the adequacy of means of escape " the spokesman said .
" the study , to be completed in $number months , also aims to set up a management information system and computer database for the department to facilitate effective operation of the scheme , " he added .
the mandatory phase of the bsis will impose a legal responsibility on building owners to have their property regularly inspected , maintained and repaired to ensure safety of occupants and the public .
details of tender invitation for the consultancy study are contained in the government gazette published today .
copies of the consultancy brief can be obtained until $date from the chief structural engineer of the buildings department , $number floor , pioneer centre , $number nathan road , kowloon .
proposals should be returned by hand to the department on or before $date .
new integrated service project introduced for new arrivals a specially - designed integrated service project will be introduced in $date this year on a district basis for newly arrived families and their children from the mainland to help them integrate into the community as quickly and smoothly as possible , the director of home affairs , mrs shelley lau , said today ( friday ) .
speaking at a press conference to announce the new project , mrs lau said the hong kong jockey club charities trust ( hkjcct ) has accepted the steering committee on new arrivals ' recommendation to donate $ $number in support of the integrated service project for new arrivals to be launched by the hong kong federation of youth groups (hkfyg) .
" the project will establish a service network whereby a wide range of guidance , counselling , referral services and group activities will be provided for newly arrived children and their families , " said mrs lau .
at the press conference , director of charities and corporate secretariat of the hkjcct , mr david yau , said : " i am sure we all appreciate how difficult it can be to live in a new environment , with different dialects , schools , job market and being away from our friends and relatives .
how much more difficult it would be for the less well - to - do families with young children , which is the case for many of the new arrivals from the mainland .
they strongly feel that new arrivals should be provided with early assistance to settle in the local community as smoothly and quickly as possible , " added mr yau .
the executive director of the hkfyg , ms rosanna wong , said at the press conference that the hkfyg has long been concerned with young new arrivals from the mainland and how they integrate into the local community .
ms wong said : " we hope to provide a link between the families in need and the social services in the community and to channel the children and young people of these families to youth activities run by our federation . "
outlining the details of the new project , ms wong said that the major targets of the project are those families and their children who have arrived in hong kong for less than one year as well as those who have arrived here for less than three years but are still encountering adaptation difficulties .
ms wong said : " the three - year project will be $number introduced in kowloon city and tsuen wan districts which have a high population of new arrivals .
a launching ceremony of the project in kowloon city will be held in early $date this year .
" it is expected that a total of $number families and $number children and youths from these families will benefit from the project each year .
they will assist each family to identify its needs and provide information about the services required .
" with the support of the home affairs department (had) and the generous funding from hkjcct , we believe that this group of new arrivals can be adequately assisted in their assimilation and become valuable human resources to our society , " added ms wong .
the director of home affairs , mrs shelley lau , also paid tribute to hkjcct for its funding support for the new project .
mrs lau said : " in the past two years , we have forged a real partnership with non - government organisations ( ngos ) . through the concerted efforts at both the central and district levels , our services have been able to reach every new arrival who is in need of assistance on an early integration into the community .
" apart from hkfyg , similar applications from other ngos have also been submitted to the hkjcct for consideration .
it is indeed encouraging to see that provision of services for new arrivals have become a community effort . "
had is tasked with the responsibility for monitoring and assessing the services provided for new arrivals from the mainland and playing a vital co - ordination role in easing their process of integration .
" we will continue to encourage ngos to formulate and implement new initiatives to help new arrivals , " said mrs lau .
a cheque - presentation ceremony was held during which mr david yau , director of charities and corporate secretariat of hkjcct , presented a cheque for $ $number to hkfyg 's executive director , ms rosanna wong .
call for community care for elderly the chairman of the elderly commission , mr tam yiu - chung , today ( friday ) called on the community to respect the elderly and to establish a helpful and caring community .
speaking at a ceremony to mark the issue of the $number senior citizen card organised by the social welfare department , mr tam said he was delighted to see , and moved by , the enthusiastic response and support to the scheme from all levels of people in the community .
" with this in mind , it gives me full confidence on the development of elderly services , " he said .
he said the meaningful scheme would encourage government departments , public utility organisations and commercial firms to provide various concessionary and priority services for our senior citizens .
" but more important , it encourages the community to give more respect and care to the elderly in return to their valuable contribution to the society in the past days , " he added .
he noted that $number organisations with $number branches had joined the scheme .
they include government departments , public utility and transport organisations , continuing education , clinics , banks , community service groups , chained shops , restaurants , laundries and dispensaries .
the scheme was also boosted by $number elderly ambassadors , district boards , elderly centres , residents groups and services units of the social welfare department .
speaking at the same ceremony , the director of social welfare , mr andrew leung kin - pong , pointed out that more and more kaifong and home - typed firms had been joining the scheme providing benefits to the elderly .
he said the government had planned to commission a consultant firm to conduct a study on the senior citizen scheme in the coming months to enhance the effectiveness of the card .
he thanked all elderly people and firms who supported the scheme .
$number new card holders from the $number to the $number were presented gifts donated by several firms .
the grand prize went to the $number - year - old woman cheung pui - yung , who was the $number card holder . madam cheung from southern district of hong kong island was awarded $number prizes amounting to $ $number .
employers and outstanding disabled employees commended ten open - minded employers and $number outstanding disabled employees were commended today ( friday ) at the presentation of souvenirs ceremony of the outstanding disabled employees award (odea) $number .
organised by the selective placement division (spd) of the labour department , the award was an annual event which aimed at praising employers who had made special efforts in employing people with a disability and to disabled employees who had demonstrated exemplary performance at work .
speaking at the presentation ceremony , the acting commissioner for labour , mr lee kai - fat , noted that the spd had successfully placed $number job seekers with a disability in gainful employment over the past $number years .
" the success of our work depends largely on the co - operation and participation of employers , rehabilitation service agencies , people with a disability as well as the support of the community , " he said .
" i appeal to all of you for your continuous support to achieve the ultimate goal of ' together we strive for equal opportunities , together we work for a better tomorrow ' . "
at the ceremony , mr lee presented awards to the enlightened employers while another officiating guest , the chairman of the rehabilitation advisory committee , dr wu wai - yung , presented awards to the outstanding disabled employees and souvenirs to their nominating employers .
while complimenting the disabled awardees and employer awardees , mr lee said that tribute should also be paid to the other nominated employees .
" they have succeeded in overcoming the hindrance brought by their disability and earned the recognition from their respective employers , " he said .
he also extended his gratitude to all other employers who have supported the open employment of people with a disability .
two video shows on the $number outstanding disabled employees and their respective employers as well as on the support services available to employers who wish to employ people with a disability were presented during the ceremony .
an exhibition on employment opportunities of people with a disability was also held .
a group of students with some mild mental handicap gave a dance performance to add colour to the ceremony .
ping shek public transport interchange proposed the highways department proposes today ( friday ) to construct a two - level public transport interchange at the existing ping shek bus terminus adjacent to choi hung mass transit railway (mtr) station .
the ground floor of the interchange will be built as a franchised bus terminus while $number floor for boarding / alighting activities for other modes of transport including green minibuses , taxis and private cars .
two access ramps , one each at the interchange 's $number floor eastern and western approach , will be constructed to link up clear water bay road .
the design and construction of the works will be entrusted to the mass transit railway corporation as an integral part of their proposed commercial / office building .
the building with the provision of a multi - storey public car park , will provide motorists with $number " park - and - ride " facility in the urban area .
the existing bus terminus is used by three terminating and $number passing bus routes and a large number of passengers from sai kung and tseung kwan o for changing between mtr and buses .
the limited capacity of the bus terminus results in over - crowding and congestion problems as buses waiting to enter the terminus often queue back to new clear water bay road and obstruct the through traffic .
the proposed interchange will therefore mitigate the existing congestion problem .
the construction works are scheduled to commence in late $number and to be completed in $number months .
details of the proposal were published in today 's government gazette .
the plan and scheme for the proposed project can be inspected during office hours at : * public enquiry service centre , central and western district office ground floor , harbour building , $number pier road , central , hong kong ; * kowloon east district lands office , $number floor , yau ma tei carpark building , $number shanghai street , kowloon ; * kwun tong district office , ground floor , kwun tong district branch offices building , tung yan street , kowloon ; * wong tai sin district office , ground floor , san po kong government offices building , king fuk street , wan po kong , kowloon ; and * sai kung district office , $number floor , sai kung government offices building , $number chan man street , sai kung , new territories .
any person who wishes to object to the works or the use , or both , is required to write on or before $date to the secretary for transport , central government offices , east wing , $number floor , lower albert road , hong kong .
more facilities in tung chung three building projects will begin in tung chung , lantau , in $date as part of the comprehensive development of the new town and to cater for the needs of the new community .
the works will comprise the construction of a primary school and a secondary school in area $number and a refuse collection point in tung chung town centre .
upon completion in $date , the two schools will provide $number primary places and $number secondary places in the new town .
the schools will each include a classroom block , an assembly hall , two basketball courts , a covered playground , a library , a student activity centre , a staff common room , three remedial teaching rooms and a carpark .
the primary school will have $number classrooms , a general purpose room , a music room , and an art and craft room .
the secondary school will have $number classrooms , $number special rooms , two interview rooms and a guidance activity / interview room .
facilities for the disabled , including a lift and toilets , will be provided .
works on the two - storey refuse collection point will be completed in $date .
ancillary facilities including a vehicle exhaust extraction system and a water scrubber odour absorption system will be installed to minimise environmental nuisances .
draft lau fau shan / tsim bei tsui and ping shan ozp the town planning board today ( friday ) announced amendments to the draft lau fau shan and tsim bei tsui outline zoning plans (ozp) and the draft ping shan ozp .
the amendments relates to the excision of a $number - hectare site to the north of shing uk tsuen from the planning scheme area of the the draft lau fau shan and tsim bei tsui ozp for inclusion into the draft ping shan ozp .
the site has been rezoned from " conservation area " to " village type development " .
another amendment involves the inclusion of " columbarium " use in column $number of the notes of the " government / institution / community " zone .
s / yl - lfs/2 and s / yl - ps/2 ) are available for public inspection during office hours until $date at : * planning department $number floor , murray building garden road central hong kong ; * tuen mun and yuen long district planning office $number floor , metroplaza tower i $number hing fong road kwai chung new territories ; and * yuen long district office ground floor , yuen long district office building $number castle peak road yuen long new territories .
any person affected by the amendments may submit written objections to the secretary of the town planning board , c / o planning department , $number floor , murray building , garden road , central , hong kong , before $date . copies of the draft plans are available for sale at the survey and mapping office , lands department , $number floor , murray building , garden road , hong kong and the kowloon map sales office , ground floor , $number nathan road , kowloon .
maintenance of marine facilities the civil engineering department is inviting tenders for the inspection , maintenance and repairs of public marine facilities including sea walls , piers and other port works in hong kong waters .
the contractor will also be responsible for the construction of minor marine works and small - scale dredging works in case of emergency .
the contract will begin in $date and last two years .
forms of the tender and further particulars can be obtained from the chief engineer , technical services division , civil engineering office , ced , $number floor , civil engineering building , $number princess margaret road , ho man tin , kowloon .
more leisure facilities in tin shui wai the architectural services department will build an open space in areas $number and $number of tin shui wai , yuen long , to provide more leisure facilities for local residents .
the open space will occupy an area of $number square metres . it has been designed to cater for the passive recreational needs of users of different age groups .
works will include the construction of a landscaped buffer comprising rain shelters , chess tables and sitting benches , as well as associated building services and drainage installations .
works will start in $date for completion in $number months .
fsd provides quality ambulance services with the enhancement in the quality of ambulance services , the ambulance echelon of the fire services department has saved the lives of $number patients whose pulse and heart beats have once stopped .
speaking at a passing out parade of recruit ambulancemen today ( friday ) , acting director of fire services , mr john tsang kwong - yu , said that continuous efforts were being made to improve services so as to maintain the ambulance services to the public at an international standard .
mr tsang said : " all ambulances will be equipped with defibrillators during this financial year to provide better protection to patients with heart problems .
" the ambulance fleet has been renewed with the procurement of $number more advanced and attractive ambulances .
" another $number new ambulances will be arriving in hong kong next year and by then there will be $number ambulances available to provide better services to the public . " he said .
he added that a newly purchased mobile casualty treatment centre would be commissioned later to boost the department 's ability to deal with calamities and accidents .
on the building of new ambulance depots , mr tsang said lam tin and tung chung ambulance depots had come into operation earlier and the construction works of sham tseng fire station cum ambulance depot would be finished early new year .
he said plans were in the pipeline to build new depots in chai wan , mong kok , kwai chung and kowloon tong .
mr tsang called on the recruit ambulancemen on parade to serve the community with dedication , patience and courtesy , and to uphold the international reputation earned over the past century or so by their predecessors .
on parade were $number ambulancemen who had completed their basic training course and would soon be posted out to various ambulance depots to gain more field experience .
deadline for lodging proposal to alter the govt rent roll a spokesman for the rating and valuation department today ( friday ) reminded the public that the last day for making proposal to alter the government rent roll this year falls on $date .
a rentpayer who is unhappy with the rateable value on which government rent is charged may object to the assessment if this is different from the rateable value for rating purposes . the objections must be made on or before $date .
the spokesman stressed that under the provisions of the government rent ( assessment and collection ) ordinance , proposals served after $date cannot be accepted as valid .
proposals can be sent by post or by hand , but their transmission by facsimile machine is unacceptable .
the spokesman added that a proposal should be made on the specified form , form r20a . copies of the form are obtainable from the department on $number floor , hennessy centre , $number hennessy road , causeway bay , hong kong and from district offices .
for further enquiries , please call the department on $number $number .
knitting firm fined for malpractice a spokesman for the customs and excise department today ( friday ) said that it was a serious offence to furnish false information in an application for export licence .
the reminder was made after a knitting firm was fined $ $number at tsuen wan magistracy today after being found guilty to eight counts of making false statement in an application for export licence .
the goods involved were $number dozens of ladies ' woven dresses and skirts valued at $ $number .
the court heard that an investigation by officers of the customs & excise department revealed that between $date last year , the accused firm , founder knitting garments limited had arranged the goods in question under eight export licence applications to be knitted in china . as a result , such goods were not regarded as hong kong origin and could not be exported under hong kong quotas .
the spokesman stressed that the department would step up enforcement actions to track down such malpractice to protect the commercial reputation of hong kong and to ensure that the confidence of its trading partners in hong kong 's textile control system would not be undermined by some dishonest businessmen .
the maximum penalty for making false statement in an export licence application is $ $number in fine plus two years of imprisonment .
" members of the public having information on any suspected origin fraud activities could call the hotline $number $number , " he added .
opening address by the chief executive following is the opening address by mr tung chee hwa , the chief executive of hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china , at the $number annual meetings program of seminars " asia and the world : capital , competitiveness , and community " today ( saturday ) : good morning , mr wolfensohn , honourable ministers and governors , distinguished guests , ladies and gentlemen , $date , the world bank group and the international monetary fund started a program of seminars for the annual meetings .
these seminars provided more opportunities for exchange of views and reinforced the bank and the fund 's efforts to increase dialogue with the private sector . two years later , the seminar program has grown to become a most important and fruitful part of the annual meeting .
on behalf of the people of hong kong , i extend our warmest welcome to you all .
we are delighted that china is host to the $number annual meetings of the world bank group and the international monetary fund .
we here in hong kong are also honoured to act as host to you .
we believe that this event , held two months after the handover , is a vivid testimony to china 's commitment to the stability and prosperity of hong kong . it also demonstrates china 's readiness to show to the international financial community how hong kong will carry on business as usual , if not better .
ladies and gentlemen , many have billed the $number century to be the " asian century " .
undoubtedly , asia today has grown to become more successful and confident than many of us can remember in recent history .
we cannot , however , take this success for granted .
after more than a decade of uninterrupted growth , we should rethink and re - examine our competitive edge .
we should ask ourselves : can asia as a region maintain its pace of development as we move into the $number century ?
can we further enhance our competitiveness ?
to answer these questions , it is perhaps appropriate for us to look to the past for the ingredients of asia 's recent success , and thereafter , look into the future in search for appropriate solutions .
indeed , asia has achieved remarkable success in economic growth and development over the past few decades .
gdp per capita in east asia has more than tripled from $number .
average real per capita income in developing asia rose by $number per cent $date and $number per cent $date .
as recently as a decade ago , the developing economies in asia accounted for only one - $number of world output . today , they account for a quarter .
by year $number , asia is projected to account for $number .
indeed , despite the recent turmoil in the financial market which has caused temporarily setback in some of the countries . i am sure , having learned the lesson and after making necessary policy adjustment , these countries will return to the path of growth and asian economy as a whole will continue to $date forward .
how were we able to achieve such remarkable growth and development over the past decades ?
i would like to emphasise three important ingredients : namely , trade , human and capital investment .
economic growth around the world has undoubtedly been fueled by the increasingly open global trading system .
this could not have been achieved without the relative peace and stability that has prevailed since $number world war .
the open trading practices of the west allowed the free flow of capital , goods and information .
borderless trade , coupled with global financial integration , has created an efficient world market .
it has enabled each economy to seize its own competitive advantage and capitalise such advantage into growth for the local economy .
asia has benefited tremendously from the process , especially when the region 's growth has been largely export led .
over the past ten years , thanks to this increasingly open trading system , the emerging economies of asia have nearly doubled their share of world exports .
human capital was also an integral part of asia 's success .
our labour force , whether due to cultural or historic reasons , have proved to be dedicated , diligent , and efficient .
this cost efficient and highly skilled labour force has played a crucial role in the success of our export driven economies .
together with our cultural emphasis on education , our traditional spirit of self - reliance and entrepreneurialship , the people of asia has become an invaluable asset to the region at large .
today , the human element remains a cornerstone of our success .
capital investment has also played an enormous role in asia 's development .
thanks to asia 's stable political and macroeconomics environment , private savings and investment in most of asia have been twice as high as the rest of the world .
gross national savings as a percent of gnp in east asia averaged $number per cent $number .
this trend has continued , if not further improved $date .
east asia , southeast asia , and south asia together enjoyed some us $ $number of foreign direct investment $date . this accounted for $number per cent of total developing country fdi flows .
this high capital accumulation has allowed us to expand and improve our production base , and lay a foundation for future growth .
it is true that asia , leveraging off global trade growth and its human and investment capital , has achieved a spectacular level of growth and development over the past decades .
but we cannot afford to sit idly by and expect future success .
with the ever increasing globalization in trade flow , funds flow and information flow , competition across countries and regions will intensify .
we must not underestimate the challenges which lie ahead .
in order to remain competitive in the world , i see four major tasks facing asia today .
$number is upgrading our infrastructure .
infrastructure is the very foundation of our economy .
basic infrastructure in many asian economies remains inadequate .
poor infrastructure threatens export performance and in turn prevent full realisation of our growth potential .
we must continue to invest and upgrade the communication and transportation networks in the region , covering both physical assets and the quality of service .
this itself is an enormous task .
in east asia , an astounding us $ $number will be needed for investment in infrastructure in the decade up to year $number .
to accomplish this solely within public means is neither cost efficient nor management efficient .
private sector participation is essential .
$number , we must maintain a liberal world trading system .
without question , trade is essential to our growth .
at the same time , free trade exposes industries to competition .
there will emerge some industries with reduced competitiveness .
these sunset industries may need to reconfigure their businesses or alternatively relocate to more cost competitive areas .
this is inevitable as we move up the technology ladder , and our production base shifts to higher value - added goods .
to remain competitive , we must constantly improve productivity and efficiency .
trade barriers itself is only delaying tactic rather than a real solution .
an increasingly prominent issue in world trade has to do with regional arrangements .
we need to ensure that regional trade initiatives are compatible with global trade liberalisation .
regional trade blocs have emerged in the past decade .
if this regionalism gives rise to a " fortress mentality " , it may lead to increased trade friction , and thus reduce the welfare of all .
another dimension of free trade is the mobility of capital and investment .
capital inflows have been and will continue to be a crucial element of development .
especially within the region , the financial sector serves as the crucial intermediary for funding of infrastructure developments . but we must remain vigilant in managing the risks that are associated with them .
volatility of capital flows can unsettle an otherwise perfectly sound system , as we are vividly reminded by the recent turmoil in the asian currency markets .
maintaining financial stability is more of a challenge than many of us had thought .
our financial policies and institutions must operate in a prudent manner to maintain public confidence .
transparent and predictable policies and a reliable legal system are essential for a stable investment climate .
in addition , our banking and financial systems must be sound and healthy if we are to withstand external shocks or policy adjustments .
$number , we must shift our traditional concentration away from physical assets and instead enhance our focus and investments in " intangible " asset items such as human capital and capital for innovation and creativity .
physical investments undoubtedly fuel economic growth . as a economy progress , however , the relative contribution of physical investments will begin to decline .
at a more advanced stage of economic growth , competitiveness can be enhanced not by injection of cash into physical assets , but by technical innovation creativity , management restructuring and organisational improvements .
what does this mean for us in a concrete manner ?
it means that we must increase our emphasis on research and development activities .
imitation will put the local economy at a disadvantage .
we must go beyond imitation and promote innovation .
only then can we truly reap the benefits of a " high tech " sector .
equally important , we must expand our horizon and realize that " high tech " does not only apply to the industrial sector , but should and must include the financial sector and other service sectors as well .
it means that we must increase our emphasis on human resources . this includes providing a solid foundation for our youth in terms of education .
education creates opportunity ; opportunity creates drive ; and drive will help us to harness the full potential of the community .
it includes the encouragement of post graduate and professional research that puts a community at the forefront .
last but not least , it includes the enhancement of the quality of life for our citizens .
our life style , our leisurely pursuits , and the environment in which we live must be consistent with the wealth of society .
these are not merely economic issues but can have wider impact on the overall stability and productivity of the community as a whole .
like our neighbours around the region , hong kong too is faced with similar challenges .
can we sustain our growth and development going forward ?
how can hong kong ensure that it will continue to play a central role in facilitating the region 's growth and prosperity ?
to maintain our pre - eminent position , we must uphold the rule of law , and ensure the independence and the transparency of our judiciary . we must maintain our prudent and conservative financial management , and consistently offer the best infrastructure and workforce .
we must ensure a high quality and forward looking civil service .
we must recognize and continue to encourage the contribution of the foreign community here in hong kong .
as predominantly a service centre , our competitiveness is a function of both the quality of our infrastructure and the cost at which these services can be provided vis - a - vis our neighbouring competitors .
the challenge for my colleagues and i is to contain our cost , without damaging the soundness and the vitality of the economy .
we must enhance our economic vitality by providing an educated and well - trained workforce that will promote the service sector , the development of high value - added industries , and the development of information - technology industries and infrastructure .
we will aim to give each person in hong kong a modern , and well - balanced education .
we will enable more citizens to realize the dream of home ownership for the sake of personal security , dignity and social stability in as short a time as possible .
we will develop a comprehensive policy for our ageing population , and provide our elderly with a sense of security , belonging and worthiness .
ladies and gentlemen , today 's theme , " capital , competitiveness , and community " , lies at the heart of asia 's economic success , past , present and future .
with the combination of these elements , i am sure that asia will continue to prosper .
there is much work to be done .
but we in hong kong look forward to the challenges .
we are excited by the prospect of asia in the coming century , and we look forward to playing a meaningful part in asia 's continued growth and development .
speech by the fs at breakfast briefing following is the speech by the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , at the breakfast briefing for private sector participants at $number wbg / imf annual meetings today ( saturday ) : " hong kong : at the centre of international finance and business " good morning , ladies and gentlemen , $number of all , i would like to thank the trade development council for organising this briefing .
it is my honour to speak to the most distinguished financiers coming from all over the world this morning .
just a few months ago , the imf classified hong kong as an " advanced economy " . this was a vote of recognition of hong kong 's economic performance .
now , the world bank and imf are holding their annual meetings in the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) within $number days of the resumption of chinese sovereignty . this is a vote of confidence in the hksar , trusting that hong kong 's prosperity will continue under the " one country , two systems " concept , or i should say the " one country , two systems " principle as the concept has been realised and is being practised .
this principle emphasises the importance of maintaining hong kong 's capitalist system .
the legal instrument of implementing this principle is the basic law , our mini - constitution , which stipulates that hong kong will enjoy a high degree of autonomy in all our affairs other than foreign affairs and national defence .
financial autonomy in financial and monetary terms , this means that within one country , there are two currencies , two monetary systems and two monetary authorities .
under the basic law , the sar government has full autonomy in formulating its own monetary and financial policies .
we will continue to safeguard free flow of capital .
the hong kong dollar remains the only legal tender in hong kong as before .
in performing its central bank functions , the hong kong monetary authority is fully independent from its counterpart in the mainland - the people 's bank of china .
the us dollar link is still being maintained .
the stronghold for maintaining the link is the combined assets of the exchange fund and the land fund totalling us $ $number as at the end of $date .
this link has contributed significantly to the monetary stability of hong kong for $number years since its inception $date and will continue to do so .
market performance after the reunification before the reunification , there were sceptics who cast doubt on whether the guarantees enshrined in the basic law would be honoured at all . facts have dispelled such scepticism .
the strong feeling of stability and enthusiasm is palpable everywhere you go in hong kong .
this explains why investors have still strongly favoured hong kong after $date .
let us look at the stock market .
turnover at the hong kong stock exchange has increased substantially since the beginning of this year .
the average daily turnover since $date has been us $ $number per day , which is $number per cent higher than the average for $number six months .
we saw some adjustments in major international and asian securities markets at the end of $date and in early $date .
being an international financial centre with an entirely open regime , hong kong was no exception .
however , the market has functioned in an orderly way , thanks to the much improved trading and settlement systems and the pre - emptive measures taken by the securities and futures commission , the stock exchange , the futures exchange and the clearing houses .
haphazard turbulence has not shaken our strong fundamentals at all .
i am confident that the liquidity , the transparency and sound regulation will continue to be the underlying strengths of hong kong 's market .
at the same time , we are also committed to further developing our market to meet different investors ' needs .
a couple of months ago , we began trading regional derivative warrants and convertible bonds on the hong kong stock exchange .
through linking up the stock exchange of hong kong with the philadelphia exchange and the hong kong futures exchange with the new york mercantile exchange , we have also enabled trading on their currency options and commodities futures contracts respectively in hong kong during asian business hours .
more recently , we have introduced two red - chip index futures to the market .
i am sure you all know that red - chips refer to hong kong or overseas - incorporated companies with a significant shareholding by mainland chinese entities and usually with the majority of their assets in mainland china .
in less than a week 's time , we will be putting the hong kong interbank offer rate futures contracts for trading on the automatic trading system of the hong kong futures exchange .
all of these are indications of our commitment to maintain and enhance hong kong 's competitiveness and our readiness to answer the market needs .
hong kong as china 's international financial centre the introduction of red - chip securities products in the hong kong markets heralds an even closer economic relationship between the mainland and hong kong .
hong kong has become the most important capital - raising centre for mainland chinese enterprises .
as at the end of $date , there were $number chinese state - owned enterprises listed in hong kong , having raised about us $ $number through our market .
more such listings are in the pipeline .
financial transactions between the mainland and hong kong have grown substantially .
at end - $date , external claims by hong kong 's authorised institutions on mainland banks and non - banking entities amounted to us $ $number and us $ $number respectively .
their corresponding external liabilities to banks and non - bank customers in the mainland amounted to us $ $number and us $ $number .
the economic outlook for the mainland remains favourable .
indeed , a recent world bank report on global economic prospects has named mainland china among the " big five " - the new engine house for world growth over the next quarter century .
most analysts put the forecast real gdp growth rate for $number at around $number per cent .
over the medium term , the economy is targeted to grow by an average of $number per annum in the period up to $number .
against this favourable background , we expect hong kong 's role as china 's international financial centre will grow in parallel .
for hong kong is not just privileged by the natural linkage with mainland china , it also has the best concentration of infrastructure and human resources in the world to serve the mainland 's huge funding needs .
we have already mapped out plans to maintain this position $date .
$number , we will encourage the development of new financial products in the markets .
in the debt market , the soon - to - be - introduced mandatory provident fund scheme will create huge demand for quality debt instruments .
the newly founded mortgage corporation intends to start its $number purchase of mortgages to build up its portfolio in the last quarter of $number , with a view to securitising mortgage soon after .
on the stock market , i have earlier mentioned red - chip securities products .
even without a crystal ball , i can envisage that more red - chip - related derivatives will flourish .
moreover , we will continue to examine the feasibility of trading depository receipts on the hong kong stock exchange and the setting up of a $number board for growing small and medium size enterprises .
our efforts in the exploration and development of new products to respond to market needs will continue .
$number , we will gear up efforts to upgrade the infrastructure in the financial services sector to meet future needs .
on the banking front , we introduced a real time gross settlement system for our interbank payment system to reduce the settlement risk last year .
our plan is to link up hong kong 's local payment system with that of the mainland to provide a payment versus payment facility for exchange transactions between the hong kong dollar and renminbi . for the stock market , the exchange has expanded the capacity of the computer system so that it can deal with a daily turnover of us $ $number and eventually us $ $number .
for the debt market , we plan to establish bilateral linkages with the domestic central depositories in the region to facilitate cross border trading and investment in debt securities .
we are also looking at the linkage and integration of the various settlement and clearing systems .
equipped with such sophisticated infrastructure , hong kong is in the best position to function as china 's international financial centre .
$number , we recognise the importance of human resources .
with a service sector accounting for $number per cent of the gdp , we have been adapting our education system to the service - based economy .
the future focus will be on information technology .
we aim to strengthen students ' computer knowledge at all levels .
that is why the chief executive and i were especially interested in visiting institutes in this field during his recent visit to singapore and mine to australia .
another area of emphasis is language skills .
our aims are to raise the students ' language proficiency in both english and chinese and enable them to command putonghua which is the main language of our trade with the mainland . in the years ahead we will strive to ensure an ample supply of skilled workers and professionals for the financial sector through training and research . conclusion as a concluding remark , i wish to say that this grand event means a lot to the people of hong kong .
the world bank and imf hold their annual meetings outside washington only once in every three years .
the event has not only brought the top officials of the world bank and imf and distinguished guests like yourselves to hong kong . it has also drawn the world 's attention to how hong kong has been doing since $date .
you and other participants of the meetings and seminars will have the chance to bear witness to our way of life in hong kong uninterrupted across $date .
perhaps , the single difference that you can sense is the removal of the air of uncertainty and impossible vitality of the city .
with the rapid economic development and reform in the mainland , hong kong strides ahead at the same pace and serves as china 's foremost international financial centre in the next millennium .
thank you .
hk 's role as china 's international financial centre : fs the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , said today ( saturday ) hong kong 's role as china 's international financial centre would grow in parallel against the favourable economic outlook for the mainland .
speaking at a breakfast briefing for leading international bankers and financial executives participating in the $number world bank group / international monetary fund (imf) annual meetings , mr tsang said hong kong had become the most important capital - raising centre for mainland chinese enterprises .
as at the end of $date , there were $number chinese state - owned enterprises listed in hong kong , having raised about us $ $number through our market , he said .
" financial transactions between the mainland and hong kong have grown substantially .
at end - $date , external claims by hong kong 's authorised institutions on mainland banks and non - banking entities amounted to us $ $number and us $ $number respectively , " mr tsang said .
" their corresponding external liabilities to banks and non - bank customers in the mainland amounted to us $ $number and us $ $number . "
the financial secretary said hong kong was not just privileged by the natural linkage with mainland china , it also had the best concentration of infrastructure and human resources in the world to serve the mainland 's huge funding needs .
" we have already mapped out plans to maintain this position $date , " he added .
these included encouraging the development of new financial products in the markets ; gearing up efforts to upgrade the infrastructure in the financial services sector to meet future needs ; and recognising the importance of human resources by adapting the education system to the service - based economy .
on new financial products , mr tsang said the soon - to - be introduced mandatory provident fund scheme would create huge demand for quality debt instruments .
" the newly founded mortgage corporation intends to start its $number purchase of mortgages to build up its portfolio in the last quarter of $number , with a view to securitising mortgage soon after , " he said .
on stock market , the government would continue to examine the feasibility of trading depository receipts on the hong kong stock exchange and the setting up of a $number board for growing small and medium size enterprises , mr tsang said .
" our efforts in the exploration and development of new products to respond to market needs will continue . "
on infrastructure upgrade , mr tsang said hong kong planned to link up hong kong 's local payment system with that of the mainland to provide a payment versus payment facility for exchange transactions between the hong kong dollar and renminbi .
" we also plan to establish bilateral linkages with the domestic central depositories in the region to facilitate cross border trading and investment in debt securities , " he said .
" we are also looking at the linkage and integration of the various settlement and clearing systems .
equipped with such sophisticated infrastructure , hong kong is in the best position to function as china 's international financial centre . "
on human resources , mr tsang said the future focus would be on information technology .
the aims would be to strengthen students ' computer knowledge at all levels and to raise the students ' language proficiency in both english and chinese and enable them to command putonghua which was the main language of hong kong 's trade with the mainland , he pointed out .
" in the years ahead , we will strive to ensure an ample supply of skilled workers and professionals for the financial sector through training and research , " mr tsang said .
" with the rapid economic development and reform in the mainland , hong kong strides ahead at the same pace and serves as china 's foremost international financial centre in the next millennium . "
as a concluding remark , the financial secretary told the gathering of international bankers that the holding of the annual meetings of the world bank and imf here meant a lot to the people of hong kong .
" the holding of these meetings within $number days of the resumption of chinese sovereignty was a vote of confidence in the hong kong special administrative region , trusting that hong kong 's prosperity will continue under the 'one country , two systems ' concept , " he said .
recapitulating on hong kong 's market performance after the reunification , mr tsang told his audience that the average daily stock exchange turnover since $date had been us $ $number per day , which was $number per cent higher than the average for $number six months .
commenting on the recent adjustments in major international and asian securities markets , mr tsang said , " haphazard turbulence has not shaken our strong fundamentals at all . "
" i am confident that the liquidity , the transparency and sound regulation will continue to be the underlying strengths of the hong kong market , " he added .
$number apec sme ministerial meeting the secretary for trade and industry , miss denise yue , participated in $number asia - pacific economic co - operation (apec) ministerial meeting on small and medium enterprises (sme) in ottawa , canada , on $date .
apec ministers responsible for smes issued a joint statement reaffirming the contribution of smes to international trade within the region and to the further development of all apec economies .
they underlined their commitment to strengthen the sme agenda and to deliver activities that will provide meaningful results to smes .
the joint statement also sets out the direction of future actions to facilitate the growth of smes .
at the meeting , ministers agreed to present to the apec economic leaders for adoption at their meeting in $date in vancouver the framework for apec sme activities to benefit small businesses .
the framework is built around five key areas that affect the growth of smes and which ministers discussed in detail , namely information access , financing access , market access , technology access and human resources access .
hong kong shared our experience in these areas with other participants .
miss yue placed great emphasis on technology access .
she said : " some $number per cent of companies in the manufacturing and services sector incorporated in hong kong are smes .
the government of the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) attaches great importance to assisting smes in dealing with , and capitalising on , technology access . "
" the hksar government strives to nurture and nourish entrepreneurship and self - help by providing the most business - conducive and favourable environment for smes . it also partners with smes and industry and business support organisations to provide a wide range of services for the development and application of technology for smes , " she said .
at the meeting , ministers discussed the progress of existing , and welcomed new , initiatives in the sme action plan .
they also interacted with business representatives from the different apec economies .
ministers welcomed the increasing participation of the private sector in apec 's sme work . ministers found their dialogue with young entrepreneurs on issues of concern to them extremely productive .
business representatives of hong kong who took part in the session were the chairman of the small and medium enterprises committee , mr denis lee , and the president of the hong kong women professionals and entrepreneurs association , ms marina wong .
the ministerial meeting was chaired by the honourable john manley , minister of industry of canada , and attended by all the $number apec economies , namely , australia , brunei darussalam , canada , chile , china , hong kong china , indonesia , japan , korea , malaysia , mexico , papua new guinea , new zealand , philippines , singapore , chinese taipei , thailand and the united states .
encouraging response to " volunteer trail " project the director of home affairs and co - chairperson of the organising committee of the " volunteer trail " project , mrs shelley lau , today ( saturday ) praised the success of the community building project which had attracted $number visitors to local social service units resulting in the signing up of some $number new volunteers .
speaking at the " volunteer trail award presentation ceremony " , mrs lau said that the success of the project was largely due to the tremendous support and active participation of $number social service units which committed themselves to opening to the public $date this year to enhance public understanding of welfare services and encourage participation in voluntary work .
the " volunteer trail " project is jointly organised by the home affairs department and the hong kong council of social service (hkcss) to complement the handover celebrations and mark hkcss 's $number anniversary .
mrs lau pointed out that $number of the visitors had visited at least three service units , $number had visited at least five units and $number over seven units , adding that many of them should be commended for submitting constructive suggestions following their visits .
" we have achieved the aims of the project .
for we have not only succeeded in increasing public interest and understanding of welfare services in hong kong , we have also managed to attract $number new volunteers .
" we believe that the number of new volunteers registered will continue to grow and the message of helping one another and serving the community we have been promoting will be carried on , " said mrs lau .
another co - chairperson of the organising committee and hkcss representative , dr marion fang , thanked all participating groups and individuals , including voluntary agencies , the social welfare department , the education department and " caring ambassadors " from various community groups , for their contributions to organising the event .
officiating guests at the ceremony included hkcss chairman , mr eric li ka - cheung , who presented awards to nine winners of the volunteer chop design competition ; hkcss director , mr hui yin - fat ; director of social welfare , mr andrew leung ; and assistant director of education , mr ng kwok - chuen ; who all presented enthusiastic participation awards to the district representatives .
education day to mark the new school year special church services to mark the start of the new school year will be held tomorrow ( sunday ) which has been designated education day .
heritage exhibition extended until $date the exhibition on " hong kong 's heritage - - a history of $number years " has received an encouraging response since its opening in $date and is now extended until the end of $date .
a spokesman for the antiquities and monuments office (amo) said today ( saturday ) : " the exhibition enables local citizens as well as visitors from all over the world to appreciate the local heritage which demonstrates that hong kong is by no means a cultural desert but a place of rich and respectable culture . "
the display introduces the rich relics from different historical periods with special emphasis on archaeological finds and historical buildings .
exhibits include unearthed artefacts and archaeological evidences of the middle neolithic period ( $number b.c. ) .
the exhibition is held in the heritage resources centre of the amo at $number nathan road , tsim sha tsui , kowloon .
the opening hours are as follows : mondays to saturdays : $number am to $number pm sundays and public holidays : $number pm to $number pm tuesdays : closed the event is one of the highlights of the various activities of the " year of heritage " jointly organised by the antiquities advisory board , the lord wilson heritage trust and the amo of the broadcasting , culture and sport bureau .
for further information , please contact the amo on $number $number .
fresh water cut in tai po fresh water supply to some premises in tai po will be suspended from $number pm on $date ( tuesday ) to $number am the following day for watermain connection works .
fs 's speech at reception following is the speech by the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , at the reception hosted by kowloon - canton railway corporation on the occasion of the $number world bank group / international monetary fund annual meetings in hong kong today ( sunday ) : distinguished delegates to the world bank group / imf annual meetings , honourable guests , ladies and gentlemen , on behalf of our host this evening , the kowloon - canton railway corporation , i would like to welcome you all to hong kong for $number annual meetings of the world bank group and international monetary fund ever held here .
it is indeed hong kong 's great honour to have been chosen as the venue for this very important event .
the fact that the world bank group and the imf have chosen to hold their annual meetings here is i believe a vote of confidence in hong kong as an international financial centre .
the holding of the annual meetings here has provided an excellent opportunity for you to see for yourselves that it is business as usual in hong kong wherever you go .
the four important pillars which underpinned hong kong 's economic success before the changeover , which are the rule of law , a level playing field for all who do business in hong kong , a corruption - free public service and free flow of information , have all remained to ensure hong kong 's continued success as it takes on its new role as china 's premier international financial centre .
the " one country , two systems " concept works , right in front of your eyes .
and i see hong kong approaching the next century in extremely good financial shape .
at the moment , hong kong has something like $ $number us dollars in the bank , of which some $ $number is held in foreign currencies .
and we have no debt .
at the same time we continue to plan for , and build , the massive infrastructure needed to keep our economy competitive .
we have spent almost $ $number us dollars on our new airport and related developments , which include two of the world 's longest bridges , a dedicated express railway line , a new town which will ultimately house $number people , a new cross - harbour tunnel , $number kilometres of six - lane expressways and major reclamation to provide new land for commercial development and housing .
to keep up with the pressing needs of our rapidly growing population and their growing demands for efficient transport links between home and places of employment , we are poised to embark on major expansion of our railway networks over the next few years .
a most important element of this transport strategy involves the kowloon - canton railway corporation , or kcrc for short .
at present , kcrc operates several railway networks . it provides heavy rail , light rail and cross - border passenger services , bus services , freight services and participates in joint venture property developments .
kcrc has become one of the best run , highest quality and most profitable , mixed - use railways in the world .
its history goes back to $number .
$date it became a government - owned corporation , operating on prudent commercial principles .
it is a world leader in the railway industry in iso certification and has won numerous awards for its commitment to quality service .
$date , kcrc carried $number passengers a day and achieved a profit after tax of $ $number hong kong dollars .
thus when we looked at how we could take forward our railway developments , we invited kcrc to produce a proposal and feasibility study on how hong kong 's western corridor could be provided with high - speed and efficient rail services .
last $date , the government gave kcrc the green light to continue its planning for $number phase of west rail project , a $number kilometre passenger railway that will provide a much - needed passenger link between the northwest new territories and urban kowloon .
as you can see from the various placards around the room , west rail will have nine stations and will carry $number passengers per day when completed $date , making construction of it one of the largest railway undertakings in the world .
in considering what would be the most appropriate financial arrangement for west rail 's construction , it is useful to look at hong kong 's track record .
over the past three years , we have contributed hk $ $number to the airport authority and the mass transit railway corporation , or mtrc for short , which at present operates our underground train system , to help finance construction of the airport and airport railway .
on these projects and others , i am pleased to say that hong kong has an excellent record of completing major infrastructure projects on time and within budget .
while an investment by the sar government would be an important part of any financial package for the west rail , we believe that the project will be attractive to the financial markets as well .
$number , west rail is itself financially viable , providing a satisfactory rate of return in line with other major publicly funded infrastructure projects .
$number , west rail has the full support of the government and the community at - large .
$number , west rail is being undertaken by the kcrc , who , as an experienced railway operator with record of consistent profitability , has already received investment - grade credit ratings equivalent to those of the mtrc .
thus we believe that the kcrc will be able to secure borrowings from the international financial markets to finance a major share of the project , and make effective use of them .
west rail is an important project to keep hong kong on the fast track . construction will begin later next year .
working with the kcrc , the financial community will clearly have a key role to play .
as a footnote to the investment in west rail , let me say that the kcrc remains committed to improving its railway system as a whole , taking every opportunity for expansion but , of course , within the bounds of prudence and financial viability .
on this note , i would like to thank you again for coming this evening .
i hope that you will find time out of your busy meeting schedules to see more of this " pearl of the orient " .
thank you .
west rail project attractive to financial markets : fs the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , said today ( sunday ) that the west rail was an important project to keep hong kong on the fast track .
while an investment by the government would be an important part of any financial package , mr tsang believed that it would be attractive to the financial markets as well .
speaking at a reception hosted by the kowloon - canton railway corporation (kcrc) on the occasion of the $number world bank group / international monetary fund annual meetings in hong kong , mr tsang said he saw hong kong approach the next century in extremely good financial shape with something like $ $number us dollars in the bank , of which some $ $number is held in foreign currencies , and without any debt .
" at the same time we continue to plan for , and build , the massive infrastructure needed to keep our economy competitive , " he said .
" to keep up with the pressing needs of our rapidly growing population and their growing demands for efficient transport links between home and places of employment , we are poised to embark on major expansion of our railway networks over the next few years . "
mr tsang said the government invited kcrc to produce a proposal and feasibility study on how hong kong 's western corridor could be provided with high - speed and efficient rail services .
last $date , the government gave kcrc the green light to continue its planning for $number phase of west rail project , a $number - kilometre passenger railway that will prove a much - needed passenger link between the northwest new territories and urban kowloon .
the rail system will have nine stations , and will carry $number passengers per day when completed $date , making construction of it one of the largest railway undertakings in the world .
the financial secretary said : " in considering what would be the most appropriate financial arrangement for west rail 's construction , it is useful to look at hong kong 's track record .
" over the past three years , we have contributed hk $ $number to the airport authority and the mass transit railway corporation , which at present operates our underground train system , to help finance construction of the airport and airport railway .
" on these projects and others , i am pleased to say that hong kong has an excellent record of completing major infrastructure projects on time and within budget . "
mr tsang said he had reasons to believe the kcrc would be able to secure borrowings from international financial markets to finance a major share of the project , and make effective use of them .
" $number , west rail is itself financially viable , providing a satisfactory rate of return in line with other major publicly funded infrastructure projects , " he said .
" $number , west rail has the full support of the government and the community at - large .
" $number , west rail is being undertaken by the kcrc , who , as an experienced railway operator with record of consistent profitability , has already received investment - grade credit ratings equivalent to those of the mtrc . "
working with the kcrc , the financial community will clearly have a key role to play , mr tsang added .
fs 's transcript the following is the transcript of the media session by the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , after the reception hosted by the kowloon - canton railway corporation on the occasion of the $number world bank group / international monetary fund annual meeting in hong kong this ( sunday ) evening : fs : i just mentioned that i was very happy to be able to participate in this promotional work for the west rail .
as you know , we are now in a tail - land of a very massive infrastructural project of the airport core programme .
$number phase would be in the development of our rail system and the west rail is a very major component of it . this is an important project not only in social terms but it is a viable project , a sound investment .
so , mr yeung quite rightly has begun to promote this project at this juncture when there is the presence in hong kong a large number of international bankers and finance houses to enable them to familiarise with this major project and hopefully they will participate in it .
q : how much do you think ... the government ... ?
fs : we do our part in any infrastructural programme . the whole financial details are yet to be worked out . but , of course , we will never shirk our liability in making sure in the government that it will be backing up an infrastructural programme of this kind .
premier looks over transport , shipping infrastructure premier li peng visited key parts of the hong kong special administrative region 's transport and shipping infrastructure , including the new airport at chek lap kok , the lantau link and a container terminal , this ( sunday ) afternoon .
mr li 's $number stop was at the container terminal $number in kwai chung , after which he was driven to the lantau link viewing platform to see hong kong 's record - breaking bridges , and he then went on to the new airport at chek lap kok .
he was accompanied throughout by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , and other senior officials of the sar government - the chief secretary for administration , mrs anson chan , and the financial secretary , mr donald tsang .
on arrival at the lantau link visitors centre on tsing yi , he was greeted by the secretary for works , mr kwong hon - sang , the director of the new airport projects co - ordination office , mr billy lam chung - lun , the director of highways , mr kenneth leung kwok - sun , and the project director of the lantau link , mr lau ching - kwong .
mr lam briefed the premier on the latest progress of the $ $number airport core programme , one of the world 's largest infrastructural undertakings , which already had eight of its $number projects completed , on time and within budget .
it was the premier 's $number opportunity to see how the acp projects had developed since he signed the memorandum of understanding concerning the construction of the new airport in hong kong and related questions in beijing on $date .
mr kwong described how the tsing ma and kap shui mun bridges , the world 's longest span suspension and cable - stayed bridges to carry both road and rail traffic , had been built in only five years and well below the original budget .
from tsing yi , mr li was driven over the $number - kilometre - long lantau link , which crosses two sea channels on the key shipping route to southern china ports , and along the north lantau highway to the new airport .
he arrived at the passenger terminal building where he was greeted by the chairman and vice - chairman of the airport authority , mr wong po - yan , and mr lo chung - hing .
moving into a reception area inside the terminal , mr li also met other members of the authority 's board , and the authority 's chief executive officer , dr henry townsend , project director mr douglas oakervee , and other directors .
mr wong and mr lo gave a briefing on progress of the new airport works , which overall are $number per cent complete and are on target for airport opening in $date .
on leaving the terminal , the premier was taken on a car tour of the airport island , passing by the air traffic control tower , along the southern runway and past franchise facilities under construction .
mr li was driven back to his hotel along the $number - kilometre acp transport corridor - - covering the north lantau highway , lantau link , route $number , west kowloon expressway and the western harbour crossing .
earlier , mr li was given an insight into shipping operations during his visit to container terminal $number at the kwai chung container port .
he was also accompanied on this visit by the secretary for economic services , mr stephen ip , and representatives of the container port operators .
mr ip and ct8 senior management representatives briefed the premier on operations at the four - berth terminal , which is the largest in hong kong , occupying a total area of $number hectares and having a quay length of $number metres .
the two berths on the west side are operated by modern terminals ltd , and the two berths on the east side , the part which mr li visited , are owned and operated by cosco - hit terminals ( hong kong ) ltd .
mr li heard how hong kong ranks as the world 's busiest container port .
$date , the total container throughput amounted to $number $number - foot equivalent units ( teus ) .
he was told that to meet long - term demand , a new container terminal , terminal $number which is designed to have six berths , is being planned at tsing yi .
construction work is expected to start in early $number and $number berth is expected to come into operation in late $number / early $number .
when fully operational in the early 2 0 0 0 s , the terminal will add $number teus to kwai chung 's handling capacity .
statutory holiday on $date the labour department today ( sunday ) reminded employers that $date is an additional statutory holiday this year .
under the employment ordinance , all employees , irrespective of their wage levels , are entitled to statutory holidays .
an employee employed under a continuous contract is entitled to statutory holiday pay if he has worked continuously for his employer for three months or longer immediately before the statutory holiday .
holiday pay should be equivalent to an employee 's earnings on a full working day and should include basic wages as well as allowances that can be expressed in money terms such as cost of living , meal , travelling and attendance allowances , attendance bonus , commission and overtime pay .
where earnings vary from day to day , holiday pay should be the average daily earnings during every complete wage period , which could be between $number and $number days , preceding the holiday .
if an employee is required to work on a statutory holiday , he must be given an alternative day off within $number days before or after that day .
any employer who fails to comply with the provisions on statutory holidays is liable to a maximum fine of $ $number .
enquiries about statutory holidays can be made at the labour department 's hotline $number $number .
fs networking with financial leaders from the world the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , met important overseas financial leaders and ministers in the run - up to the opening of the world bank group (wbg) / international monetary fund (imf) annual meetings held in hong kong . he exchanged views with these leaders on various monetary issues of mutual interest .
mr tsang met the european commissioner for financial and economic affairs , mr yves thibault de silguy , the japanese minister of finance , mr hiroshi mitsuzuka , and the singapore finance minister , dr richard hu , today .
the financial secretary said he was glad to note that his counterparts in different countries had all given hong kong full credit for organising such a magnificent event as the wbg / imf annual meetings .
" they were very impressed with our preparations .
i have been told by my numerous contacts that this is the best organised meeting they have ever attended , " he said .
" my contacts have also commended the timeliness for hong kong to organise such a grand event just two months after the handover .
mr tsang said in discussion of the various learning lessons to be drawn from the recent regional currency crisis , one prominent consensus came out .
" we agree that all partner economies should foster closer regional monetary co - operation . we recognise that this is particularly important for trade dependent economies , such as hong kong , " he said .
" i have given my pledge to my counterparts that hong kong is ready to move towards closer monetary co - operation with our trading partners . "
yesterday , mr tsang met the us secretary of the treasury , mr robert rubin , and the british chancellor of the exchequer , mr gordon brown .
he also met the chinese minister of finance , mr liu zhongli and the governor of the people 's bank of china , mr dai xianglong , last saturday ( $date ) .
the financial secretary will attend the opening ceremonies of the $number wbg / imf annual meetings tomorrow .
in the next three days , mr tsang will meet the president of japan credit rating agency , mr masao fujioka ; the deputy prime minister and treasurer of poland , professor marek belka ; the deputy prime minister and treasurer of new zealand , mr winston peters ; and the director - general of the world trade organisation , mr renato ruggiero .
colourful show for spouses of wbg / imf meeting delegates the spouses of participants attending the world bank group / international monetary fund annual meetings in hong kong were treated to an entertaining programme of chinese music , local fashion and video extracts during a luncheon today ( monday ) .
the luncheon was hosted by mrs tung chee hwa with mrs li peng and mrs zhu rongji as guests of honour .
mrs tung also presented each guest as souvenir a silk scarf with traditional chinese double - fish and tripod motifs .
welcoming the attendants , mrs tung said that hosting the prestigious wbg / imf annual meetings in hong kong was of great significance to the sar and reaffirmed its status as an international financial centre .
apart from the majority of the population who are chinese , there are others of various races , nationalities and cultures . we all work together for a better future , " she said . mrs tung said that the luncheon programme illustrated the cultural diversity in hong kong where east meets west .
the programme comprised a $number - minute fashion show , put together by local designers and volunteers , and a compilation of music from different chinese provinces performed by students from the hong kong academy of performing arts .
video extracts included a performance of two pieces of music composed in celebration of hong kong 's reunification with china - " heaven , earth , mankind " and " homecoming , the song of celebration " , and footage from a hong kong tourist association video which brought the audience through the humble beginning of hong kong to today 's affluence and success .
corruption allegations hold no truth in response to media enquiries about allegations of syndicated corruption in the architectural services department reportedly made by tai hing ( engineers & builders ) limited , in particular by their managing director , the acting director of architectural services , mr kwan pak - lam , said today ( monday ) that they held absolutely no truth .
mr kwan said : " any person who has complaints against corruption should make a report to the independent commission against corruption . "
" we will seek legal advice on the matter urgently , " he said .
on the construction of yuen long civic centre , mr kwan said tai hing began works in $date .
" by $date , the scheduled completion date of the project , tai hing had completed only $number per cent of the building works and $number per cent of the building services works , " mr kwan said .
" given the unsatisfactory performance of the company , the department had no choice but to re - enter the construction site on $date , " he said .
hong kong celebrates world maritime day $number the international maritime organisation (imo) - the united nations specialised agency dealing with maritime affairs - is celebrating together with its $number member states the world maritime day $number starting from today ( monday ) to friday ( $date ) .
the theme for this year 's occasion is : " optimum maritime safety demands a focus on people " .
the imo , of which hong kong is an associate member in its own right , uses the occasion every year to publicise its work . the annual world maritime day was $number held on $date to mark the date of entry into force $date of the convention establishing the imo .
in a message marking the world maritime day $number , the secretary - general of the imo , mr william o ' neil , said today that the solution to avoid an accident was not by adding more regulations but required a change of attitude and the adoption of a culture which put safety at the top of its list of priorities .
mr o ' neil said that the imo has been since the last two decades emphasizing that more should be done to ensure that existing regulations were properly implemented .
mr o ' neil said , " over the last few years , imo has devoted more and more attention to achieving this goal and have taken steps to improve the way governments implement imo standards on ships under their flag .
" we have encouraged the establishing of regional agreements for carrying out ship inspections by port states , " he added .
the secretary - general further elaborated that the imo was now focusing on two initiatives - the international safety management (ism) code and the revision of the convention on standards of training , certification and watchkeeping for seafarers (stcw) .
$number is the entry into force next $date of the ism code . " this code was developed by imo to ensure that shipping companies around the world treat safety seriously , " mr o ' neil said .
" the code requires that they develop a special safety management plan and appoint a senior official to be responsible for its implementation .
" this could involve changes to the structure and organisation of shipping companies and we believe that it will result in major improvements to the safety of shipping , " mr o ' neil continued .
with regard to the concern that some shipping companies might think that the code is somehow voluntary and will not apply to them , mr o ' neil stressed that the ism code is going to be mandatory and to apply to virtually every ship in the world .
" companies which do not have the proper certification as prescribed in the code would be in violation of the convention for the safety of life at sea (solas) and could find themselves out of business because their ships will be denied entry into ports around the world , " mr o ' neil said .
" it is impossible , under solas , for implementation of the code to be deferred . it will enter into force on $date - and that date cannot be avoided . "
as for $number initiative , mr o ' neil noted that it concerned the $number amendments to the convention on standards of training , certification and watchkeeping for seafarers . they entered into force on $date this year and are intended to raise the quality of the seafarers who operate the world 's ships .
" this will improve their efficiency and enhance their safety as well . and , like the ism code , this cannot be avoided , " he said . " by next year , parties to the convention are required to submit to imo details of their administrative , educational and certification procedures .
" these will then be considered by the maritime safety committee , imo 's senior technical body - which is open to all member states .
" those who pass this scrutiny will be able to prove that the seafarers who hold their certificates meet international standards but those who do not find that their certificates would not be internationally recognised and their seafarers would be refused a berth . "
commenting on these initiatives , the secretary - general noted that both of them were concerned with people .
" the ism code will help managers of shipping companies who are best placed to make ships safer while the revised convention will provide the framework to ensure that they are appropriately trained and possess the skills to do the job properly , " he said .
" i believe that these two major developments , combined with other imo initiatives designed to improve the way convention requirements are implemented , will help to ensure that shipping safety improves dramatically in the years to come , " mr o ' neil said .
" by concentrating on management and seafarer standards , they focus attention where it is most needed - on people , " he added .
slope maintenance exhibition opens in sha tin a seven - day exhibition on slope safety and maintenance will begin tomorrow ( tuesday ) at sha tin new town plaza . organised by the geotechnical engineering office of the civil engineering department , the exhibition aims to promote public awareness of the importance of slope maintenance and safety .
the exhibition will feature various aspects of slope maintenance and safety through the display of colourful illustrations , photographs and a video .
information on landslip warning messages , warning signals , signs of landslip danger and precautionary measures will also be displayed .
interesting quiz games will be set up for visitors while balloons carrying slope safety message will be distributed to members of the public during the weekend .
residents can also take home leaflets on slope safety and maintenance .
the exhibition will be open from $number am to $number pm daily until $date at level one arcade of sha tin new town plaza phase iii .
admission is free .
a similar exhibition will be staged at telford gardens in kowloon bay between $date .
parents are reminded to submit p1 application forms parents who wish to apply for a primary one place for their children in public - sector schools in $date are reminded to submit their application forms between today ( monday ) and friday ( $date ) .
parents who wish to apply for a discretionary place in a particular government or aided primary school should submit the completed application form and all supporting documents to that school direct in the specified period .
" if parents are found to have applied to more than one government or aided school , their applications will be rendered void and no discretionary place will be allocated " , she said .
disciplined services committee chairman re - appointed the government today ( monday ) announced the re - appointment of mrs miriam lau as chairman of the standing committee on disciplined services salaries and conditions of service .
also re - appointed to head the sub - committees of the standing committee were mr ronald arculli , chairman of the general disciplined services sub - committee , mr martin barrow , chairman of the police sub - committee and mr brian renwick , chairman of the icac sub - committee .
dr wilfred chan , mr cheng kai - nam , mr anthony cheung , mr nicholas chiu , mr chow chun - fai , mr poon chin - hung and mr yeung ka - sing were re - appointed as members of the standing committee .
the re - appointments are for a period of one year , with effect from $date .
the standing committee on disciplined services salaries and conditions of service is a permanent body appointed by the chief executive to advise and make recommendations on matters relating to the structure of the disciplined services , and the salaries and conditions of service of their staff .
ce 's speech at wbg / imf annual meetings opening ceremonies following is the speech by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , at the opening ceremonies of the $number world bank group / international monetary fund annual meetings today ( tuesday ) : premier li , chairman khirbash , mr wolfensohn , mr camdessus , ministers , governors , guests , ladies and gentlemen : i have much pleasure in welcoming you , distinguished officials and guests from around the world .
we are honoured that china is the host of the $number annual meetings of the world bank group and the international monetary fund and delighted that hong kong is to act as the host city to you . hosting the annual meetings this year has a special meaning for hong kong .
we have , of course , just witnessed on $date this year our reunification with the people 's republic of china .
the presence of premier li and the distinguished guests of the international financial community signifies your strong support for hong kong and underlines hong kong 's status as a leading international financial centre .
these prestigious meetings also provide a unique opportunity for our visitors and friends from all over the world to witness at $number hand the pride and confidence and the continuing prosperity and stability of hong kong under the framework of " one country , two systems " .
$date has come and gone . we , who live and work in hong kong , continue to work hard for an even more successful and prosperous future .
all three branches of our political structure , the executive , the legislative , and the judiciary have all been functioning normally .
there has been no change in our life style . and our economy continues to grow .
indeed , recent surveys have shown that $number per cent of the hong kong people expressed confidence over hong kong 's future .
hong kong has achieved remarkable success in the last few decades .
because of our strategic position , hong kong has benefited greatly by an increasingly open and global trade and financial system .
part of hong kong 's success is also as a result of our promotion of free competitive environment , the strict adherence to the rule of law , minimum bureaucracy and a level playing field and a strong commitment against corruption - all provided and supported by an efficient civil service .
our conservative fiscal management , low and predictable tax structure have also contributed greatly to our stability and prosperity .
all the above critical success factors for hong kong have been enshrined in the basic law .
the fundamental reason for our confidence is , of course , the solid promises of our basic law .
it is a comprehensive document that was drafted together by people from both hong kong and mainland china after some four years of consultation and discussion .
the basic law provides a constitutional framework for the hong kong special administrative region . it institutionalizes the concept of " one country , two systems " .
it clearly prescribes the social , economic and political systems in hong kong which are different from those in mainland china . it protects the rights , freedom and lifestyle of hong kong people .
the basic law guarantees the independence of our judiciary and , apart from foreign affairs and defense , it gives us full responsibilities to manage our own affairs .
it allows us complete financial autonomy , and independence of our monetary system . it establishes hong kong as a separate customs territory , and enables us to work directly with the international community to curb trade in strategic commodities , drugs , illegal trans - shipments , and protect intellectual property rights .
the basic law has also established the framework for the democratic evolution of our political structure over $number ten years , with my election as chief executive in $date and the election for $number legislature scheduled for $date .
development beyond the ten years period will be up to the views of the people of hong kong at that time . the political evolution will continue with universal suffrage as the ultimate objective .
over the past two decades , hong kong has transformed itself successfully from a manufacturing economy to a service economy .
today , $number per cent of our work force is employed in the service sector , contributing to $number per cent of gdp .
with a gdp per capita of us $ $number , we are a leading international financial centre .
hong kong has achieved this status through the maintenance of sound economic policies .
we are proud of our linked exchange rate regime , which remains unshakable despite turbulences in the region .
we have today over us $ $number in foreign exchange reserves , of which about us $ $number constitutes fiscal reserves , with no external debt .
our fiscal surplus this year will exceed $number of gdp , our savings rate continues to exceed $number per cent , and in the last ten years , we exported on average $number of gdp in domestic savings .
these sound fundamentals underline our approach to our role regionally and globally .
hong kong 's linked exchange rate regime is the anchor of our monetary and financial stability .
we do not intend to compete internationally on the basis of exchange rate adjustment .
we compete equally and fairly in terms of private sector productivity and public sector efficiency .
our open markets , free trade and sound finance are the hallmarks of hong kong .
hong kong has benefited greatly from its strategic position at the heart of the fastest growing region in the world , an asia that is increasingly more open to global trade and investments .
asia may be going through a period of consolidation , but i am confident that many of the countries who have suffered from the recent turmoil in the financial market will soon be on a rebound .
the continuing rapid growth and development in many parts of asia will bring new opportunities to hong kong .
we are gathered here today for a common objective - international economic and monetary cooperation to achieve stable global development , prosperity and stability .
as an international financial centre , hong kong is a living symbol of that cooperation .
hong kong will play its role as a good neighbour in promoting monetary and economic cooperation in the region and internationally .
this is clearly shown in our recent $ $number participation in the thai adjustment package , led by the imf , the new arrangements to borrow , and our recent membership of the bank for international settlements and the world trade organisation .
hong kong has enjoyed great prosperity over the last two decades .
the extraordinary economic success of mainland china over this period has been a particularly important driving force behind our success .
the $number party congress , which was recently concluded in beijing , has reaffirmed and ensured the path of development for china for years to come .
indeed , as we move into $date , under the visionary leadership china will become more prosperous and more open and china 's economy will become one of the largest in the world .
hong kong , with our access , knowledge and expertise of the global financial market , and our position as the primary gateway to china , looks forward to both taking advantage of and contributing towards the development of our country .
china 's emergence is one of the most important events $date . we in hong kong are proud to play an important role in this historic time . thank you very much .
speech by premier li peng at wbg / imf annual meetings following is the translation of the speech by premier li peng at the opening ceremonies of the $number annual meetings of the boards of governors of the world bank group and international monetary fund today ( tuesday ) : mr chairman , president wolfensohn , managing director camdessus , friends , ladies and gentlemen , today , the $number annual meetings of the boards of governors of the world bank group and the international monetary fund open solemnly in the hong kong special administrative region of the people 's republic of china .
on behalf of the chinese government and people , i would like to extend our warm congratulations on the convocation of the annual meetings and our sincere welcome to all the delegates and honored guests .
i am convinced that with the concerted efforts by all of you , these meetings will yield rich results .
the annual meetings are the largest international conference held in hong kong after its return to the motherland $number such meetings ever held in china .
they are therefore of great significance for promoting mutual understanding , exchanges and cooperation among various parties .
as a chinese saying goes , seeing it once is better than hearing about it $number times .
now you are in hong kong , you can see with your own eyes that the chinese government 's basic policies of " one country , two systems " , " hong kong people administering hong kong " and " a high degree of autonomy " have been carried out in earnest , and the sar government headed by mr tung chee hwa is operating normally and effectively in accordance with the " basic law " .
we are confident that the sar government and the hong kong people will do a good job in running and building hong kong .
it can be predicted that hong kong 's future will be more splendid .
hong kong , in its continued capacity as a free port and an international financial , trade and shipping center , will play an even more active role in strengthening the economic cooperation between china 's mainland and other countries in the world .
the just - concluded $number national congress of the chinese communist party is an extremely important meeting held at the turn of the century .
the main message i bring to you today is that the congress has identified deng xiaoping theory as our guiding ideology after drawing upon the experience of past two decades ' reform , opening - up and socialist modernisation drive ; that , in grasp of the situation , our central collective leadership with president jiang zemin at the core is strong and enjoys the support of the whole party and the entire population ; china 's political situation is stable ; and that the reform and opening - up policies will not only remain unchanged but also continue to develop and the cause pioneered by deng xiaoping will not only go on , but make even greater progress .
the period from now to the end of $number decade of the next century is crucial for china 's modernisation , during which we must properly fulfill two tasks .
one is to establish a rather compete structure of socialist market economy and the other is to maintain a sustained , rapid and sound development of our national economy .
it is expected that in the last few years of this century , the chinese economy will maintain a growth rate of $number , while inflation will be kept under $number .
in $number $number years of the next century , the chinese economy will continue to grow at around $number .
so with efforts for another three to four decades , that is , by the middle of the next century , china will achieve all - round modernisation and become a prosperous , democratic and culturally advanced socialist country .
we must actively promote a fundamental shift in both the economic structure and the mode of the economic growth , continue to deepen reform , effect breakthroughs in the reform and transformation of state - owned enterprises and the diversification of the forms of public ownership . according to the latest statistics , since reform and opening - up , the mixed economic sectors , including , inter alia , sino - foreign joint ventures , have made marked progress , as they now take up $number per cent of china 's total gdp , including $number from the public economic elements of these joint ventures .
generally speaking , the mixed economic sector enjoys advanced technologies , scientific management and high economic returns .
in the course of the development of the mixed economy , the public sector has also made progress .
we will implement the policy of national rejuvenation through science and education and the strategy of sustainable development and achieve coordinated socio - economic development and overall social progress .
these goals are magnificent and , given hard work , entirely achievable .
this is because we have already found a right road of development suited to china 's national conditions , secured a stable social and political situation , acquired quite a solid material and technological base , and possessed a large market and rich resources , and finally we have $number industrious and talented people .
unswervingly carrying out its policy of opening - up , china will work energetically to embrace the world by continuing to improve its all - directional , multi - layered and extensive opening pattern .
the economic development of china is closely linked with that of the world . a prosperous chinese economy needs a substantial absorption of advanced technologies , capital and management expertise from abroad .
to meet the needs under the new situation of reform , opening - up and economic development , the chinese government has decided to further lower its tariff level by $number per cent in general and adopt preferential policies on the access of new and high - tech equipment and practical advanced technologies to china .
china 's vast market and enormous growth potential will undoubtedly provide even more opportunities for its cooperation partners and instill fresh vigor into global and regional economic development .
mankind is about to enter $date . reviewing the past century , we see stupendous and far - reaching changes on the world scene .
having freed themselves from imperialist and colonialist domination and won national liberation and independence after centuries of foreign oppression and enslavement , developing countries find themselves now on the world stage with a completely new image and growing ranks . thanks to their unremitting efforts of several decades , the overall strength of developing countries has increased remarkably , their international status has risen and the prospects of their economic growth look promising .
the rise of developing countries is a far - reaching event in the present - day world .
it has smashed the monopoly of world affairs by a few countries and lent a powerful push behind the movement towards a multipolar world .
we must not forget that $number people in the developing world are still struggling in poverty .
economic disparities among countries are staggering as the gap between the rich and the poor continues to widen and the unjust and inequitable international economic order still puts interests of the developing countries in harm 's way .
if these problems remain unresolved , the developing countries can not become developed , neither can the existing developed countries sustain their growth .
world economy is an interrelated whole .
as much as the developing countries need the developed countries , the developed countries can not stand without the developing countries .
to sustain their prosperity , the developed countries must have markets for their goods , outlets for their capital and suppliers of raw materials they need , on all of which they must look to the developing countries for answers .
if the developing countries enjoy economic development and social stability , this will increase the capacity of world market , create more commercial and job opportunities for all countries and generate tremendous benefits .
conversely , if their economy is sluggish and society turbulent , there will be no peace and tranquillity in the world .
the prosperity and affluence of a small number of countries can not last long on the basis of poverty and backwardness of the majority countries .
when we approach this issue , we must have in mind cross - century development and entire mankind .
creating favourable conditions and helping developing countries achieve sustainable development is a shared responsibility of the international community and also an important task of international financial institutions .
in this connection , i would like to set forth six propositions of principle as follows : $number , full attention should be given to the urgent development needs of the developing countries .
after the end of the cold war , some people no longer regard development as a crucial issue .
this view fails to consider the whole picture .
in fact , the question of development bears on the future destiny of the world , which calls for proper attention .
if the international community wants to concentrate on developing the economy in a peaceful and tranquil environment , then it can not afford to ignore the reasonable demands of the developing countries and must attend to their concerns over finance , debt , trade , environment and poverty issues .
the international community , developed countries in particular , should take a long - term view and adopt effective measures to meet their pledges of providing fund and technical assistance to the developing countries so as to make due contribution to their development .
$number , extensive cooperation should be conducted on the basis of equality and mutual benefit .
there are $number countries in the world , and all of them , big or small , rich or poor , strong or weak , are equal members of the international community .
trade discrimination and exchanges of unequal values in economic relations should be opposed .
such practices as bullying the weaker or less fortunate by dint of one 's power or wealth should not go unchecked , still less should countries be allowed to impose sanctions , or threaten to do so , at every turn against others .
the developing countries are equally entitled to participate in the making of decisions and rules affecting the international economy .
$number , the right of every country to independently choose its social system , mode to development and lifestyle should be respected .
countries differ from one another in historical background , social system , level of development , cultural tradition and value system .
such diversity is the fact of life we must face squarely .
indeed , we can very well regard these differences as something favourable for greater cooperation and exchanges if we can pursue common ground while reserving differences and refrain from interfering in each other 's internal affairs .
in no circumstances should any country be allowed to impose its social system and ideology on others .
assistance has always been mutual .
and economic assistance must not be attached with any political conditions .
$number , countries should learn from each other and complement each other with respective advantages .
both the developed and the developing countries have their own strengths and advantages .
the developed countries are advanced in science and technology and strong in financial capital , while the developing countries are rich in natural and human resources and large in market potential .
the economic interdependence between the two groups is deepening steadily .
faced with such increasingly serious global issues as environment , poverty , debt and refugees , the two sides will find it hard to cope with the challenges unless they can learn from and complement each other and work together to bring about common prosperity .
$number , it is essential to choose a development road suited to one 's own national conditions .
true , developing countries need a favourable external environment in order to eliminate poverty and achieve economic take - off . yet in the final analysis , they must depend on their own efforts .
proceeding from their actual situation at home and in light of their needs and possibilities , the developing countries should work out effective domestic policies and actively conduct economic restructuring in response to shifting economic and technological trends in the world .
at the same time , south - south cooperation in every field should be strengthened and north - south relations improved and further promoted .
$number , international cooperation in financial field should be reinforced .
free flow of capital across national boundaries is a strong feature of the development of world economy .
being prone to have such risks , developing countries may also become easy targets of international financial speculation .
financial crises will do no country any good .
the international community , international financial institutions included , should play a positive role in maintaining international financial stability .
the world bank and the international monetary fund , established half a century ago , have played a constructive role in promoting the world economic growth , economic exchanges among countries and economic and social progress of the developing countries .
this we must affirm .
at present , with rapid advancement of science and technology and unprecedented expansion of economic cooperation , the world is moving towards multipolarity with accelerated pace .
the world bank group and the international monetary fund , as the most influential multilateral financial institutions , will preserve their vigor and hold out a bright future only when they can undergo timely readjustments and reform in keeping with the new and shifting world situation and give expression to the reasonable demands of the developing countries .
our world needs peace , countries want stability , economy must develop and society must make progress .
let us work together and make our due contribution to the lofty cause of world peace and development .
in conclusion , i wish the annual meetings a complete success .
thank you .
spel : govt committed to tackling environmental challenges following is an opening address delivered by the secretary for planning , environment and lands , mr bowen leung , at the opening ceremony of $number annual business and industry environment conference today ( tuesday ) : mr chairman , ladies and gentlemen , it is my pleasure to be invited to address this gathering of distinguished business and industry leaders at $number annual business and industry environmental conference and exhibition .
this is a particularly apt time for me to re - affirm the commitment of the government of the hong kong special administrative region to tackling the environmental challenges that we continue to face .
the change of sovereignty has not reduced that determination one iota .
indeed , if there has been any change , it has been positive .
after less than three months under chinese sovereignty , there have already been encouraging signs that we will achieve a much higher level of cooperation on cross - boundary issues than what could be considered possible a few months ago .
it will , however , be some time before we can judge the extent of practical effects arising from this new relationship .
nonetheless , i am pleased to say that we are certainly moving in the right direction .
i would also like to take this opportunity to reiterate our commitment to the successful private - public sector partnership approach that has been so well demonstrated by the centre of environmental technology , and this building , the jockey club environmental building .
as many of you know , the building was opened just over a year ago , with funds donated by eminent , environmentally conscious private companies , and the land provided free by the government .
the centre , and its parent body , the private sector committee on the environment , embody much of our thinking on the ideal way to solve environmental problems .
whilst it is , of course , necessary to provide a regulatory framework , we aim to maximise the extent to which we can achieve solutions to our environmental problems by means of market forces .
this is often easier said than done , but i believe it to be self - evident that market - driven solutions alone will be self - sustaining .
i would in particular wish to mention waste reduction which will be discussed during this conference .
suffice it to say that we have placed great emphasis in our draft waste reduction plan to finding market - driven solutions to our waste disposal problems .
i look forward to hearing your comments and suggestions . but more than that i look forward to seeing many of you putting forward and implementing practical , self - sustaining schemes that will make a real contribution .
if not , we will have little choice but to resort to the crude tool of legislation .
looking further ahead , on a broader front , we must start to focus our attention on sustainable development .
we have just commissioned a $number - month study on how hong kong can sustain its economic and social development in an environmentally acceptable way . the outcome of this study will impact upon each and every one of us in hong kong , in virtually every aspect of our lives as well as policy formulation of the government in future .
again , whilst we will doubtless have to resort to legislation in various aspects , we will look to visionaries like you in the private sector to provide ideas , technologies and market driven solutions to as many aspects of the sustainable development framework as possible .
with that , hopefully , challenging comment , it only leaves me to wish you all an interesting and thought provoking conference .
thank you .
tac on additional fares for cross - harbour taxi passengers the transport advisory committee (tac) today ( tuesday ) considered that the additional fare for taxi passengers using eastern harbour crossing (ehc) and western harbour crossing (whc) should be revised from $date , by increasing the return toll from $ $number to $ $number .
speaking after the tac meeting , the chairman , dr cheng hon - kwan , said : " this revision can maintain a reasonable balance between the interest of the taxi trade and passengers as well as the distribution of taxi traffic through the tunnels . "
at present , taxi passengers are required to pay a return toll of $ $number and the appropriate tunnel tolls for using all three harbour crossings , except for those making a cross - harbour taxi trip from cross - harbour taxi stands who will not be required to pay the return toll .
starting from $date , ehc will raise its toll charge for private cars and taxis from $ $number to $ $number .
" with the increase in ehc toll charges , it is necessary to increase the return toll payable by taxi passengers using ehc . otherwise , taxi drivers may suffer when they cannot secure a hire but are required to cross the harbour to return to their operating base , say changing shift , " said dr cheng .
" as for whc , we adopt the consideration which the tac adopted in late $number in respect of the return toll for taxi passengers using whc .
we consider it necessary to increase the return toll to $ $number so that empty taxis will still have two alternative cross - harbour routes to choose from . "
those taxi passengers who make a cross - harbour trip from cross - harbour taxi stands will continue to be required to pay the appropriate tunnel tolls only .
regarding the cross harbour tunnel (cht) , dr cheng said that " given its comparatively central location among the three harbour crossings and the relatively higher number of cross - harbour taxi stands in the vicinity , we consider that the existing $ $number return toll for taxi passengers using cht should remain .
it would not be reasonable to ask these taxi passengers to pay a return toll higher than the $ $number tunnel toll . "
transport complaints unit receives more complaints the number of complaints and suggestions received by the transport complaints unit (tcu) of the transport advisory committee between $date and $date increased by $number per cent to $number as compared with $number in the previous quarter .
during the period , the major areas of complaint were related to public transport ( $number per cent ) , road traffic conditions ( $number per cent ) and enforcement ( $number ) .
the number of complaints about public transport increased by $number per cent from $number in the previous quarter to $number .
more significant increases were noted in the number of complaints against citybus ( up $number ) , china motor bus ( up $number ) , green minibuses ( up $number ) , kowloon motor bus ( up $number ) and taxi driver malpractices ( up $number ) .
however , complaints about rail services dropped by $number per cent $number .
there were also fewer complaints against ferry services ( down $number ) .
complaints about the malfunctioning of traffic lights and damaged traffic signs increased by $number per cent $number .
there were also more complaints about traffic congestion ( up $number ) and road conditions ( up $number ) .
all suggestions and complaints received by tcu had been referred to the relevant authorities and government departments for investigation .
members of the public may lodge their complaints directly with the transport complaints unit by dialling a $number - hour hotline $number $number or $number $number .
speedpost service to sarawak suspended the postmaster general , mr robert footman , announced today ( tuesday ) that because of air pollution caused by thick haze in sarawak , speedpost service to sarawak is suspended with immediate effect .
all speedpost items that have been dispatched to sarawak will be delayed until weather conditions improve .
another announcement will be made as soon as the service returns to normal .
no mail delivery on public holidays the postmaster general , mr robert footman , announced today ( tuesday ) that there would be no mail delivery during the forthcoming public holidays on $date ( national day and the day following the national day ) . all post offices will be closed .
however , one mail collection will be arranged for all street posting boxes except those which are located on outlying islands and in remote areas . the time of collection is shown on the time - plate of each posting box .
$date quarterly survey of employment and vacancies started the census and statistics department has just started another round of the quarterly survey of employment and vacancies to collect data on employment and vacancies in major sectors of the economy in respect of $date .
this survey is conducted quarterly and the survey results are useful in serving as short - term economic indicators and providing information on the latest changes in the labour market .
this round of the survey covers $number establishments which are drawn from various sectors including the industrial sector ( mining and quarrying ; manufacturing ; electricity and gas ) , the distributive trades sector ( wholesale , retail and import / export trades , restaurants and hotels ) and the services sector ( transport , storage and communications ; financing , insurance , real estate and business services ; community , social and personal services ) .
information on number of persons engaged and vacancies as at $date will be sought from each selected establishment .
questionnaires are being mailed to selected establishments .
in accordance with the census and statistics ordinance , these establishments are required to complete and return the questionnaires to the census and statistics department within the specified period .
if individual establishments have difficulties in completing the questionnaires , they may contact the department for assistance at $number $number .
consumer price indices for $date the census and statistics department released today ( tuesday ) the consumer price index (cpi) figures for $date .
the year - on - year rate of increase in the consumer price index (a) was $number in $date , slightly higher than that of $number in $date .
the year - on - year rate of increase in the consumer price index (b) , at $number in $date , was also slightly higher than that of $number in $date .
the corresponding rate of increase in the hang seng cpi , at $number in $date , was nevertheless lower than that of $number in $date .
the composite cpi , which is compiled based on the combined expenditure pattern of households covered by the three sub - indices , showed a year - on - year increase of $number in $date , slightly lower than that of $number in $date .
the faster year - on - year increases in the cpi ( a ) and cpi ( b ) in $date than in $date were mainly due to high prices of fresh vegetables in $date , caused by the prolonged rainy weather starting from $date together with the typhoons in $date .
as for the hang seng cpi , the slower increase in $date than in $date was in part due to slower year - on - year increase in the prices of outerclothing .
analysed by component , faster year - on - year increases than the overall average in $date were recorded for clothing and footwear ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) ; housing ( $number in both cpi ( a ) and composite cpi ) and food ( excluding meals bought away from home ) ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) .
meanwhile , those components with slower year - on - year increases in prices than the overall average were durable goods ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) ; transport ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) ; miscellaneous services ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) ; meals bought away from home ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) ; alcoholic drinks and tobacco ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) and fuel and light ( $number in cpi ( a ) and $number in composite cpi ) .
comparing $date with $date , both the cpi ( a ) and cpi ( b ) increased by $number . the corresponding increase for the composite cpi was $number .
on the other hand , the hang seng cpi decreased by $number in $date .
taking $number eight months of $number together , the increases in the cpi ( a ) and cpi ( b ) averaged at $number and $number respectively over a year earlier .
the corresponding increases for the hang seng cpi and composite cpi were $number and $number .
for the three months ended $date , the cpi ( a ) and cpi ( b ) were , on average , higher by $number and $number respectively over a year earlier .
the corresponding increases for the hang seng cpi and composite cpi were $number and $number .
for the $number - month ended $date , the cpi ( a ) and cpi ( b ) were , on average , higher by $number and $number respectively than the preceding $number - month period .
the corresponding increases for the hang seng cpi and composite cpi were $number and $number .
the seasonally adjusted monthly rates of increase in both the cpi ( a ) and cpi ( b ) averaged at $number and $number respectively during the three months ended $date .
the corresponding increases for the hang seng cpi and composite cpi were $number and $number .
meanwhile , more information are given in the " consumer price index report " for $date , which is available at $ $number per copy from the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong ; or from the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
for local and overseas mailings , contact should be made with the information services department , $number floor , siu on centre , $number lockhart road , wan chai , hong kong .
for enquiries about the indices , please telephone the consumer price index section of the census and statistics department at $number $number .
social welfare chief visits guangdong the director of social welfare , mr andrew leung kin - pong , will lead a five - member social welfare department delegation to guangzhou and panyu in guangdong province tomorrow ( wednesday ) and thursday .
the delegates will meet officials of the province 's civil affairs bureau to exchange views on elderly services , including the portable comprehensive social security assistance scheme (pcssa) for hong kong elderly people who retire to guangdong .
other members of the delegation are deputy director ( administration ) , mrs louise wong yau sin - yu ; assistant director ( elderly and medical social services ) , mrs eliza leung wong kwok - shing ; chief social security officer , mr cheng chok - man ; and executive officer , mr matthew lo wai - hung .
the delegation will leave for guangzhou by through train at $number am tomorrow ( wednesday ) and return to hong kong at $number pm on thursday by ferry from nan sha .
fresh water cut in sham shui po fresh water supply to some premises in sham shui po will be suspended from $number pm on friday ( $date ) to $number am the following day for waste detection work on watermains .
the suspension will affect a section of tat chee avenue between to yuen street and tai hang tung road , fa po street , begonia road , cassia road , magnolia road , rose street , wistaria road , marigold road , osmanthus road , dianthus road , peony road , verbena road and tseuk kiu street including fa hui park , mong kok stadium , parc oasis and $number boundary street .
refugee co - ordinator returns from hanoi talks the refugee co - ordinator , ms sally wong , returned to hong kong from hanoi this ( wednesday ) evening after talks with the vietnamese authorities on the vietnamese migrant and vietnamese illegal immigrant problems .
speaking to the press at the airport , ms wong said she had had a " useful and frank " exchange of views with vietnamese officials from the immigration department of the ministry of interior , the consular department of the ministry of foreign affairs and the office for refugee and repatriation affairs of the ministry of labour , invalids and social affairs .
" discussions focused on the repatriation of the remaining comprehensive plan of action cases and clearance and repatriation of vietnamese illegal immigrants , " ms wong said .
" as a result of the one - and - a - half day meeting , both sides now have a better understanding of each other 's position and difficulties .
" as the issues involved are complex , both sides agreed to reflect further and revert to each other .
" we hope to meet again in the not too distant future , " ms wong said .
latest statistics show that there are $number vietnamese migrants and $number vietnamese illegal immigrants in hong kong .
building rules reflect new social values building laws and codes of practices introduced by the buildings department reflect hong kong 's new social values , the director of buildings , dr choi yu - leuk , said in lisbon last ( tuesday ) night .
these new social values include greater respect for the individual 's rights such as the rights of building owners in multi - ownership , greater respect for construction workers , higher safety and environmental standards for new developments , and the increasing commitment of building professional to the betterment of hong kong .
dr choi was speaking at the $number annual conference of the international urban development association in the portuguese capital .
these new values are enshrined in amendments to the buildings ordinance and regulations enacted last year , which dr choi described as " the most far - reaching changes in more than two decades . "
a purpose of these legislative amendments was to introduce a site supervision plan system to ensure a safe construction process and environment on and around building sites .
the other purpose was to increase the degree of self - regulation in the registration of building professionals and contractors .
" these changes were introduced to require progressive raising of standards of the construction industry in future , " dr choi said .
as a result there have been incremental changes in building practices , such as the provision of recreational facilities and essential services in new building development by giving concessions in the permitted gross floor area ; provision of facilities for access and use by person with disability ; compulsory provisions of refuse storage chambers in buildings for more effective disposal of refuse ; and provision of facilities in buildings to conserve energy .
other changes include formalising the granting of additional buildable area in return for dedication of spaces for public passage and for road widening . the criteria for prioritising the removal of different categories of unauthorised building works have also been formalised .
" these changes in building control , together with economic , political and social changes have generally resulted in a favourable background for building development , " dr choi said .
turning to the existing building stock , dr choi said the safety of ageing buildings had become an increasingly urgent issue .
" the deterioration of reinforced concrete in a coastal city environment has also become more serious , " he added .
" however , redevelopment of these old buildings is becoming difficult as many are under multiple ownership . a new approach has therefore been initiated recently , " he said .
dr choi pointed out that the government had proposed a building safety inspection scheme under which owners would have to engage registered building professionals to inspect and keep in repair their buildings to ensure they were safe at least until the next inspection cycle .
the scheme focused on the structural stability , the integrity of external wall finishes and the adequacy of fire escape .
" the maintenance and preservation of old buildings will become even more important in the future , " he added .
marine traffic measures for national day fireworks display the marine department , marine police and fire services department will jointly implement a series of marine traffic arrangements in victoria harbour to ensure safety during the national day fireworks display on $date .
announcing details of the arrangements at a press conference today ( wednesday ) , marine officer / operations ( $number ) , harbour patrol section of the marine department , mr mak shui - wing , said the fireworks display would take place in victoria harbour off wan chai around $number pm on $date and the fireworks would be discharged from four barges at anchor with two barges moored together .
mr mak said : " a closed area , encompassing the fireworks display barges , will be established between $number pm and $number pm , during which the area will be closed to all marine traffic , except craft directly involved in the fireworks display , government launches and other vessels approved by the director of marine . "
from $number pm to $number pm , central victoria harbour would be designated a restricted area , mr mak added .
the eastern limit will be a straight line joining the hung hom railway station cargo pier and the eastern extremity of the causeway bay typhoon shelter breakwater . the western limit will be a straight line joining the southwest extremity of ocean terminal and central government pier .
he said , " during the effective period of restriction , no vessel other than excepted vessels will be allowed to enter or remain within the restricted area .
the excepted vessels are government launches , vessels directly involved in the fireworks display , and vessels which have obtained special permission from the director of marine . "
when the restricted area is lifted at $number pm , the closed area will be still in force until $number pm .
mr mak advised coxswains of spectator vessels that waters to the west of the restricted area would not be a good viewing location due to heavy traffic conditions .
he advised spectator vessels from the west to proceed to the east before the closure of victoria harbour .
to ensure safe navigation and orderly disembarkation of passengers after the fireworks display , two sterile areas , one at kowloon public pier and the other at queen 's pier , will be established from $number pm to midnight .
these two sterile areas will include the water areas fronting the respective piers and to a distance of $number metres offshore .
they will be physically marked by the deployment of marine department and marine police launches to line up offshore .
mr mak pointed out that vessels intending to use the piers were required to wait at the designated gathering areas prior to berthing and , under the direction of marine department and marine police launches , vessels would only be permitted to enter the sterile areas from the east and depart from the west .
mr mak also advised masters , owners and operators of all vessels to take heed of the following measures before proceeding on a voyage . - all persons on board are aware of the location of all life saving appliances and that they know how to put on a lifejacket properly .
a practical demonstration is recommended ; - all children aboard wear lifejackets at all times ; - a passenger list is prepared for the ready use of emergency services .
this list should include the names of all passengers and crew on board , and should be kept by the master , and - the carrying capacity shown on the licence of a vessel is not exceeded .
mr mak stressed that masters , owners and operators of small vessels , in particular small vessels with no decking or those of less than five metres in length , should not proceed into or remain in the central harbour area during the event .
" in areas of high traffic density such small vessels are vulnerable to the wash from larger vessels and are not easily detected by larger vessels with higher freeboard , " he explained .
ce attaches importance to both environment and development the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( thursday ) that the government attaches great importance to environmental protection while implementing its infrastructure development projects in the new territories .
speaking during a visit to the northwest new territories , mr tung said : " in our effort to strengthen hong kong 's economic competitive edge in asia , we must also ensure that a good living environment is maintained in order to attract and retain talents both locally and from overseas . "
he said that while rapid development of the northwest new territories had brought its population to $number , residents ' living standards had improved at the same time . " the development potential in the area will become even greater with the completion of route no. $number and west rail in $date and $number respectively .
" however , the government is concerned that the accelerated development does not bring about various environmental problems , such as flooding and illegal land use , " mr tung said .
after inspecting some anti - flooding projects in the north district and yuen long , mr tung noted that through the joint effort of various government departments , the problem of flooding in the area has been gradually alleviated .
he expressed confidence that the problem could be further eased when a number of major river training projects are completed in three years ' time .
he remarked that the shenzhen river training project had been successfully launched under the concerted efforts of hong kong and shenzhen authorities . also the ng tung river and river beas training projects will commence next year and are expected to be completed $date .
in au tau , yuen long , mr tung was briefed on the construction of a main drainage channel to serve yuen long , kam tin and ngau tam mei .
launched $date , the project comprised a $number - kilometre nullah to be completed $date at a cost of $ $number . as for short - term measures , mr tung noted that in recent years the drainage services department has stepped up the cleaning of major watercourses and has installed alarm systems in low - lying rural areas to alert residents to any flooding threats .
for example , the flood alarm system in tin ping shen , sheung shui , will be in place soon .
the chief executive noted that under the rural planning and improvement strategy , implemented by the home affairs department , the watercourses in rural areas are regularly cleaned up .
additionally , minor river training projects and nullah improvement works are carried out to prevent flooding .
mr tung also expressed concern over the problems caused by the parking of container vehicles on farm land , adding that the government had stepped up inspection and prosecution , and had successfully ended illegal land use spread $number hectares of land . " we have also achieved good results in urging operators of container parking areas to improve their drainage systems .
the threat of flooding has been substantially reduced , " he added .
before concluding the visit , mr tung met with the provisional district board members and community leaders of north , yuen long and tuen mun districts to exchange views on district issues and future development .
accompanying the chief executive were the director of home affairs , mrs shelley lau ; project manager of north new territory development , mr che bing - doon and assistant director of drainage services , mr raymond cheung .
sca speaks on electoral arrangements the secretary for constitutional affairs , mr michael suen , today ( wednesday ) said that the proportional representation system to be adopted for the legislative council geographical constituencies election next year would allow for larger constituencies . this would allow more flexibility for the administration to allocate the increasing number of directly - elected seats in the coming legislative council elections to the respective constituencies .
speaking at the luncheon organised by friends of hong kong association , mr suen said that the proportional representation system which is based on large constituencies would be more conducive to continuity of the constituencies and provide more convenience for voters and candidates alike .
he explained that if single seat , single vote system were adopted , there would be changes in the boundaries of many constituencies in the coming elections , so as to accommodate the increasing number of seats .
according to the basic law , members returned by geographical constituencies through direct elections will increase from $number $date to $number $date and $number $date respectively .
mr suen said that the most important point was under the proportional representation system , the preferences of voters would be reflected in the number of seats allocated .
however , others will also get the corresponding number of seats in accordance with the number of votes they get , " he said .
in response to criticisms that the adoption of " block vote system " in the election committee was designed to favour the industrial and commercial sectors , mr suen said that as the industrial and commercial sectors only accounted for $number per cent ( $number ) of the total $number electors in the election committee , it could not be said that they would dominate the election committee .
he added that of the remaining $number electors , $number would come from the labour , social services and religious sectors while another $number would come from the professional sector . these two sectors would account for half of the seats of the election committee .
the remaining $number electors , who were representatives from district organisations and the political field , represented the interests of different strata of society .
he emphasised that under the existing arrangement , the great majority of the election committee seats would be returned by elections and there would be $number eligible electors in the election committee .
the composition of the election committee reflected the different interests of the various sectors .
in response to criticisms that the electoral arrangements for the new functional constituencies and therefore would result in a reduction in the number of eligible electors from $number to $number and therefore was a back - step in democracy , mr suen clarified that the number of potential electors in geographical constituencies would not be reduced .
" functional constituency election is not the same as geographical constituency election .
the electorate for functional constituencies are based on major representative bodies and the professionals .
" according to the traditional concept for the delineation of functional constituencies , functional constituencies should be composed of major organisations which are representative and are of importance in the community . they should also be based on membership of those professions with well - established and recognised qualifications , " he said .
" in delineating the electorate of the new functional constituencies , the government has followed the above - mentioned criteria and has sought public views to ensure that the delineation would be representative and widely accepted , " he added .
mr suen reiterated that the election would be open , fair , honest and acceptable to the public . the administration would follow the blueprint of democratic development as laid down in the basic law .
according to the blueprint set out in the basic law , in the coming ten years , hong kong will move towards the ultimate goal of all legislative council seats by universal suffrage .
the challenge for hong kong people is how to develop democracy in a gradual manner under a stable social environment ?
how to promote our participation in public affairs while keeping up our economic vitality ? how to enhance the sense of belonging of our younger generation ?
how to encourage their participation in community affairs and their sense of civic responisbility ?
and how could the administration stengthen her accountability to the public ? mr suen said that will these goals in mind , the administration hoped to do even better in the voter registration exercise for next year 's election so that the public would have a wider participation in the geographical election of the legislative council .
the administration was actively planning for door - to - door voter registration exercise to enable all permanent residents who are eligible voters to register . the number of hosueholds involved was estimated to be $number , he said .
the election timetable for the coming few months is very tight .
the provisional legislative council will decide on the legislative council bill this saturday .
the electoral affairs commission will be established soon and will submit its recommendation on demarcation of geographical constituencies boundaries to the chief executive by the end of $date .
voter registration will take place from end of this year to early next year . the election committee will be formed by election in early $date .
the legislative council election will take place in $date .
finally , mr suen called for the people of hong kong citizen to actively participate and support the coming election which would pave a milestone for the implementation of " one country , two systems " and " hong kong people ruling hong kong " .
lrc report on sales descriptions of flats the law reform commission (lrc) today ( thursday ) issued a report on the ways to curb misleading advertisements for overseas uncompleted residential properties advertised or offered for sale in hong kong .
the report contains the commission 's final recommendations on sales descriptions of overseas uncompleted residential property , and reflects the comments made in response to a consultative document issued in $date .
mr kennedy wong ying - ho , chairman of the lrc sub - committee on sales descriptions of uncompleted residential property , said that the problems of inadequate and misleading sales information in the sale of overseas uncompleted units are manifold .
most sales brochures and advertisements , for instance , do not give a definite date of the property being ready for occupation . failure to complete construction on time is , therefore , one of the most serious problems , he said .
mr wong said purchasers should be given better protection by getting adequate and accurate sales information , albeit at the expense of added costs and inconvenience to developers and estate agents .
the main recommendations in the report are : * any vendor of overseas uncompleted residential property must engage a licensed estate agent in hong kong .
however , this requirement shall not apply to the sale of a single dwelling by a private individual . * no media in hong kong ( including television , radio and printed media ) shall publish an advertisement for sale of overseas uncompleted residential property unless it refers to a licensed estate agent in hong kong , together with the estate agent 's licence number .
however , the requirements shall not apply to advertisements for the sale of a single dwelling by a private individual , nor to advertisements of overseas property not put up for sale in hong kong . * the estate agent who is referred to in the advertisement shall be liable for all false or misleading information in the advertisement and in all sales brochures not forming part of the advertisement . * anything in any advertisement or sales brochure which is false or misleading should constitute a breach of the proposed legislation . * up - to - date sales brochures must be made available to prospective purchasers .
it should be the licensed estate agent 's responsibility to make available the sales brochure .
all information in the sales brochure must be accurate at the time the property is $number advertised for sale . * the sales brochure must be available in chinese .
the saleable area must be disclosed in the sales brochure . * all the recommendations should be enforced by legislation .
the report also recommended government to undertake a separate study to find out the appropriate financial measures ( including stakeholding , trust account , insurance and bonds put up by developers ) to protect all deposits and instalments paid by purchasers in the event of project delay or failure .
background note in $date , the law reform commission appointed a sub - committee to consider the sales descriptions of uncompleted residential property chaired by professor derek roebuck , formerly of the department of law of the city university .
the sub - committee includes among its members lawyers , architects , surveyors and others with relevant expertise .
professor roebuck was chairman of the sub - committee for over four years until he resigned from the sub - committee in $date . mr kennedy wong ying - ho succeeded him as new chairman of the sub - committee .
in $date , the sub - committee completed their study on $number part of the reference relating to local uncompleted flats and made their proposals for reform to the commission .
the sub - committee 's proposals were largely adopted by the commission and formed the basis of the commission report published in $date on the sales descriptions of local uncompleted residential property .
afterwards , the sub - committee went on to $number part of their study , namely , the sales descriptions of overseas uncompleted residential properties , including those situated in mainland china .
in $date , the sub - committee issued a consultative document containing their interim recommendations for public consultation .
guidance on medium of instruction issued the director of education has today ( thursday ) personally addressed principals and issued guidance firmly making chinese the basic medium of instruction (moi) in public sector secondary schools .
schools in breach will be subject to sanction .
the guidance takes effect with the secondary $number intake in $date and schools are to progress each year to a higher level of secondary education .
except where the director of education has given special permission , secondary schools are to conduct classes for all academic subjects in their students ' mother tongue . this is cantonese for the majority of our students . schools already using putonghua as moi may continue to do so .
" hong kong is both a chinese community and an international city . our aim is for our students to be biliterate and trilingual , " the director of education , mrs helen c p lai yu , said .
" the learning of english has been , and will remain , a key government priority . "
" we want our young to master written chinese and english and be able to speak fluent cantonese , putonghua and english , " she added .
" from research studies , overseas and in hong kong , government is convinced about the benefits of mother - tongue teaching , " mrs yu observed .
" we are determined that the moi guidance should be properly implemented . "
" schools not using the appropriate moi will be subject to sanction . i am empowered to give directions to schools in accordance with section $number of the education ordinance and , where appropriate , to take other administrative measures . "
the use of chinese as moi lifts language barriers in the study of most subjects , enhances understanding and helps develop enquiring and critical thinking .
students under mother - tongue education learn better generally and can also have more time to concentrate on the learning of english .
the moi guidance has been formulated after a two - month consultation .
most respondents endorsed the policy on mother - tongue teaching .
some suggested that it should be compulsory for all secondary schools and at all levels .
however , others maintained that it should be applied with some flexibility , particularly having regard to the need for due interface with tertiary institutions .
$date , the education department has been encouraging secondary schools to adopt mother - tongue teaching , providing a package of positive measures , including additional teachers of english , for schools using chinese as moi to help enhance english language teaching and learning .
the education department is seeking additional resources to strengthen the positive measures from the $number school year .
schools wishing to use , or continue using , english as moi should demonstrate that they fully satisfy the requirements in terms of student ability , teacher capability and support strategies and programmes .
the deadline for such application is $date .
all applications will be considered by a vetting committee chaired by mr moses cheng , chairman of the board of education . an appeals committee , chaired by professor chang hsin - kang will hear appeals , if any .
" the arrangement will ensure transparency and impartiality . "
the appropriate moi for individual schools will be published in the secondary school places allocation (sspa) secondary school list in $date / $date .
" at this stage , we have no idea about the number , or list , of schools that will be allowed to teach in english , " mrs yu said .
while implementing mother - tongue teaching , exceptional consideration may be given to the special nature of certain subjects such as religious studies , cultural , commercial and technical subjects to be taught in english .
some schools using chinese as moi for their s1 to s3 from $number to $date switch to english - medium for certain subjects in some classes at secondary $number and secondary $number provided that they can demonstrate the english capabilities of their teachers and students and provide appropriate school - based support strategies and programmes .
schools may decide themselves what moi to be used for s6 and s7 .
" the appropriate moi is crucial to our students ' effective and pleasurable learning . we have a duty to help them to learn well .
" i look to schools , parents and the public for support and cooperation in the education and development of young hong kong , to enable them to be biliterate and trilingual . "
human resource development vital to economic success human resource development holds the key to the continued economic success of the asia - pacific region .
the secretary for education and manpower , mr joseph w p wong , made this remark today ( thursday ) while addressing some $number ministers and senior officials from $number economies at $number apec ministerial meeting on human resource development in seoul , adding that the meeting had shown the collective resolve to meet future challenges in the area .
he said the future of hong kong lay in education as it provided the human resources needed to enhance economic development .
" as part of our policy for improving the quality of education , we shall raise the standard of language training ; develop a policy on how to apply information technology in education ; and review the academic system so as to ensure that our education system meets the long - term interests of hong kong , " he said .
" we are also firmly committed to ensuring that the workforce of the future is able to meet the challenges posed by the world of information technology , " he added .
mr wong pointed out that nearly all public sector secondary schools offered computer education in the senior secondary school curriculum and $number per cent of them had internet access , and all public sector primary schools would be provided with multi - media computers with internet access over the next two years .
" we will also formulate a long - term information technology strategy in education . "
regarding the training for adult learners , mr wong said that hong kong had a well - developed system of lifelong learning or continuing and professional education .
we shall invest heavily in emerging centres of excellence , which will enable our institutions to achieve international recognition as world class researchers and serve our future socio - economic needs , " he said .
noting that hong kong , like other apec economies , needs to meet a variety of challenges if it is to maintain dynamic economic performance into the new millennium , mr wong emphasised the need of devising a manpower planning strategy which would enable hong kong to respond promptly and flexibly to the changing needs of industries .
he said the vocational training council was preparing a five - year strategic plan to provide a viable and attractive vocational education and training route for secondary school students and people in the workforce as an alternative to the traditional post - secondary and higher education system .
" following a review of the employees retraining board , we have decided to focus our retraining programme more closely on the needs of adult workers with a low standard of formal academic education and new arrival immigrants , " mr wong said .
among the hong kong delegates taking part in the apec ministerial meeting are the executive director of vocational training council , professor lee ngok ; the deputy commissioner for labour , mr alfred chan wing - kit ; the principal assistant secretary for education and manpower , mr tony reynalds ; and the assistant director of education ( chief inspector of schools ) , mr ng kwok - chuen .
while staying in seoul , mr wong also took the opportunity to visit a primary school and a high school yesterday ( wednesday ) to familiar himself with the school facilities there .
he was accompanied by a number of south korean officials on the visits .
hksarg maintains vigilance over abuse of origin rules the hong kong special administrative region government (hksarg) is fully committed to maintaining the utmost vigilance over any attempt to abuse the origin rules and is determined to combat illegal transshipment activities .
speaking at a seminar on " origin compliance strategies " organised by the american chamber of commerce today ( thursday ) , the assistant director - general of trade , mr patrick nip , said : " the hksarg is determined to stand by its international obligations governing textiles quotas .
" we will also continue to pursue in the multilateral forum the phased elimination of quotas $date as agreed under the agreement on textiles and clothing in the world trade organisation . "
" as the integrity of our trading system is the cornerstone of our separate customs status , we will not tolerate illegal transshipment activities , " mr nip said .
" we will do everything within our power to track down and take action against the minority group in the industry who challenges the integrity of our trading system .
" for these purposes , we have a textiles export control system including an elaborate origin verification system , all enshrined in law , " he said .
" we will continue to work in co - operation with our trading partners to enhance effectiveness in tackling illegal transshipment .
" at the same time , we will seek to ensure that any action taken by our trading partners should not be discriminatory in nature , should not target hong kong and should not affect adversely legitimate traders . "
" control measures are put in place to ensure that textiles and clothing exports claiming hong kong origin fulfil hong kong 's origin conferring requirements , " mr nip noted .
" the main features of the system are : * a comprehensive database and centralised watchlisting on all registered factories ; * an integrated , factory - based and targeted enforcement approach in consignment and factory inspection ; and * prompt and parallel legal and administrative sanctions . "
" the customs and excise department and the trade department work closely to enforce the textiles control system , " mr nip said .
" we believe that we have an effective system to deal with the problem of illegal transshipment , particularly with the series of new initiatives that we have introduced in the past two and a half years ; and we will continue with these initiatives , " mr nip added .
hong kong addresses wipo general assembly addressing the general assembly of the world intellectual property organisation (wipo) in geneva for $number time , the director of intellectual property , mr stephen selby , reported on hong kong 's latest situation after the reversion of sovereignty to china .
hong kong is taking part in the annual governing bodies ' meeting of wipo as part of the chinese delegation under the name ' hong kong , china ' . the meeting is being held between $date .
this year , the chinese delegation is being led by china 's ambassador to international organisations in geneva , mr wu jianmin . other members of the delegation include the head of the chinese patent office , dr gao lulin and the head of china 's trade marks office , mr bai dahua .
in his address , mr selby pledged hong kong 's future support for wipo 's activities as part of the chinese delegation , as well as active participation in wipo activities in which economies such as hong kong , which are not sovereign states , can take part separately .
commenting on the meeting in geneva , mr selby said : " taking part as a member of the chinese delegation has been very interesting .
they have been very welcoming , and have taken a lot of trouble to make sure that hong kong has a proper presence at wipo as set out in the basic law .
we have also shared some bilateral meetings with other groups in the margins of the conference to find out about intellectual property protection in other countries .
" hong kong has never been invited to address the wipo general assembly before , it 's a wonderful way to show the world how things are working after the handover , and let people see that we are alive and well .
" as part of the territory of china , we have been authorised to exercise a high degree of autonomy and enjoy executive , legislative and independent judicial power , including that of final adjudication , in accordance with our principal constitutional document , the basic law . "
in other developments , the general assembly voted in dr kamal idris as the new director - general of wipo to succeed dr arpad bogsch who will retire at the end of $date . both dr bogsch and dr idris were guests of the government at the handover ceremonies on $date and $date .
exhibition on job matching services for new arrivals the labour department will stage an exhibition on employment and retraining services for new arrivals on saturday ( $date ) .
the exhibition , co - organised with the employees retraining board , will be held from $number am to $number pm at the exhibition venue , $number floor , island place , north point . members of the public , in particular new arrivals who are in need of employment and retraining assistance are welcomed to visit it .
the visitors will be provided with the most updated information on retraining courses and employment services under the job matching programme , the job matching centre and the employment and guidance centre for new arrivals .
leaflets and booklets on these services will also be distributed .
provisional statistics of retail sales for $date the value of total retail sales in $date , estimated at $ $number , increased by $number when compared with $date . after discounting the effect of price changes over the period , total retail sales increased by $number in volume . these are the provisional figures on retail sales released today ( thursday ) by the census and statistics department .
compared with a year ago , sales of motor vehicles continued to record a robust increase , by $number in both value and volume .
sales of other consumer durable goods also increased significantly , by $number in value and $number in volume .
concurrently , sales in other types of outlets recorded increases of various magnitudes in both value and volume . sales in these outlets included jewellery , watches and clocks and valuable gifts ( $number in value and $number in volume ) ; food , alcoholic drinks and tobacco ( $number in value and $number in volume ) and fuels ( $number in value and $number in volume ) .
sales in supermarkets increased by $number in value and $number in volume .
sales of miscellaneous consumer goods grew by $number in value , but remained virtually unchanged in volume .
on the other hand , sales of clothing and footwear rose by $number in value , but decreased by $number in volume .
sales in department stores decreased by $number in value and $number in volume .
compared with $date ( this comparison is affected by seasonal factors ) , total retail sales in $date increased by $number in both value and volume .
comparing the period $date with the same period $date , total retail sales rose by $number in value and $number in volume .
the volume of retail sales is derived from the value of retail sales after adjusting for price changes . the relevant components of the consumer price index are used as deflators .
starting from the reference month of $date , a new series of value and volume indices reflecting changes in the combined sales of supermarkets and supermarkets operating in department stores was compiled .
the report containing the analysis of the $date results is now on sale at $ $number per copy at the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway ; and the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries about the survey results may be directed to the wholesale and retail trade statistics section of the census and statistics department ( tel no : $number $number ) .
$date issue of hk monthly digest of statistics on sale two feature articles entitled " trading firms with manufacturing - related functions " and " river trade cargo statistics $number " are published in the $date issue of the hong kong monthly digest of statistics , which is now on sale .
china 's open economic policies , coupled with its low labour and land costs , lead to rapid relocation of local manufacturing processes across the border through sub - contract processing arrangement in the mainland of china (spac) .
in some cases , essentially all labour - intensive manufacturing processes are moved to the mainland of china , and the local manufacturing firms have hence shifted their operational status from manufacturing to trading .
besides , many traditional import / export firms have become engaged in spac to take advantage of cheap and abundant labour and land resources in the mainland of china .
there are views that manufacturing firms and trading firms with manufacturing - related functions should be considered in conjunction for certain analytical purposes .
two feature articles addressing this subject have previously been published in the digest .
the present article , " trading firms with manufacturing - related functions " , provides an updated version of the discussion of this development . hong kong 's river trade activities have grown remarkably over the past few years , which is much related to the economic growth in the southern part of china neigbouring hong kong .
in devising development plans for river trade facilities , regular monitoring of the river traffic performance is necessary .
this , together with the rising demand of the private sector for more detailed information on the trade , has reinforced the importance of comprehensive river trade cargo statistics .
studies have been carried out under the auspices of the port development board to compile statistics on cargo traffic between hong kong and the pearl river delta ports for the years $number .
the article , " river trade cargo statistics $number " , presents the detailed results of the $number study . related container throughput statistics compiled by the marine department are also presented in the article .
the $date issue of the hong kong monthly digest of statistics is on sale at $ $number a copy .
in addition to the two feature articles , it contains the most up - to - date information on hong kong 's development regarding economic growth , labour market , inflation and many other social and economic issues .
the publication can be purchased at the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong . it is also available for sale at the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
regular subscription can be arranged with the publications sales office of the information services department ( tel : $number $number ) .
public urged to help prevent hill fires members of the public are today ( thursday ) urged to help protect the scenic countryside by preventing hill fires .
this appeal was made by the agriculture and fisheries department 's (afd) country parks protection officer , mr edmond lam , at the launching of this year 's countryside fire prevention campaign at ma on shan country park this morning .
mr lam said that the number of hill fires inside or threatening country parks $date / $number was $number , which caused damage to $number trees on $number hectares of country park land .
" although the number of cases was the lowest in the past $number years , there would be no let - up in the government 's countryside fire prevention efforts , " he said .
mr lam further pointed out that most of these fires were caused by carelessness of picnickers , grave - worshippers and farmers burning off weeds or rubbish .
" the destruction caused by hill fires does not restricted to countryside vegetation , but also resulted in the loss of wildlife habitat , degradation of landscape and its recreational value , and ultimately led to soil erosion . "
in the coming months , afd will prepare a number of educational and publicity programmes to promote the message of hill fire prevention to all sectors of the community .
" we are planning to put across the message through newspapers , radio and television programmes , signs , posters and exhibitions to enhance public awareness of hill fires and to advise them on simple precautionary measures . "
turning to hill fire fighting , mr lam said that afd 's fire fighting crews in $number country parks management centres would be mobilised during the entire dry season .
a fire control centre at kowloon hill is manned round the clock to co - ordinate all fire fighting arrangements .
mr lam thanked other departments , particularly the fire services department , the civil aid service and the government flying service , for their continued support and assistance to hill fire fighting in country parks .
he took the opportunity to remind members of the public to exercise extra care in handling fires in country parks or the countryside , especially during days when the fire danger warning is yellow or red .
" any person found guilty of indiscriminately lighting fires inside country parks could face a maximum fine of $ $number and one year 's imprisonment , " he added .
national day official functions a simple but solemn flag - raising ceremony and a cocktail reception will be organised on $date ( wednesday ) to mark $number national day in hong kong since it became a special administrative region of the people 's republic of china .
at $number am , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , and guests will witness the raising of the national flag on the seafront promenade of the hong kong convention and exhibition centre extension near the gold bauhinia statue , while the police band plays the national anthem .
members of the public will be able to witness the brief ceremony .
a cocktail reception in celebration of the national day will be held at $number pm in the grand hall of the hong kong convention and exhibition centre extension .
the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , will host the reception for guests from all sectors of the community .
precautions recommended for travellers to se asia in view of the fact that many areas of indonesia , malaysia , singapore and brunei are experiencing high levels of air pollution due to the forest fires in indonesia and unusual environmental conditions , the government advises visitors to these areas to take appropriate precautions , such as : staying indoors , refraining from outdoor activities , drinking plenty of water , and wearing protective masks if they must stay outdoors for a prolonged period of time , a government spokesman said today ( friday ) .
" people with respiratory or heart problems may like to seek medical advice before visiting these countries , " he said .
as a result of the pollution , a state of emergency has been declared by the government of malaysia in sarawak . the government of indonesia has also declared alert status for the provinces worst affected by the haze , i.e. west kalimantan , south kalimantan , east kalimantan , riau , jambi and south sumatra .
" travellers should be aware that regional airports in these areas may need to be closed and flights delayed due to poor visibility , " the spokesman said .
" hong kong residents who want to seek consular assistance in these countries are advised to contact the chinese embassy , " he said .
" there are no signs that the pollution will spread to hong kong .
the hong kong observatory and the environmental protection department will continue to monitor the situation closely , " the spokesman added .
sanctions for non - compliance clarified referring to press reports on the education department 's guidance on medium of instructions for secondary schools , a spokesman for the education department today ( friday ) stressed that the department remains firm in its stand on sanctions for non - compliance .
the director of education has made it clear in her letter to principals that apart from giving directions under section $number of the education ordinance , she will consider , where appropriate , other administrative measures .
these include all the sanctions mentioned in the consultative document : - termination of benefits to support schools adopting mother - tongue teaching which are stipulated in the code of aid for secondary schools ; - appointment of manager ( s ) to the school management committee ; - cancellation of registration of manager ( s ) ; and - change of school sponsorship .
this list is of course not exhaustive as the director will need to examine each case individually .
as to the possibility for chinese - medium schools to switch to english - medium at secondary $number and $number , this refers only to some subjects for some classes . the spokesman said that this aims to allow due interface with tertiary education .
" even so , such schools must still demonstrate the abilities of their teachers and students for teaching and learning in english . they must also provide appropriate school - based support strategies and programmes , " he said .
" we in the education department are firm in our resolve to promote mother - tongue teaching for the benefit of our students . we look to schools , parents and our community for support and cooperation . "
ce meets civil service union representatives the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( friday ) that the $number civil servants have made important contributions towards ensuring the stability , prosperity and smooth running of hong kong .
the reception was attended by representatives from $number civil service unions and associations .
at the reception , mr tung expressed appreciation of the unity of civil service unions and encouraged them to continue to work towards providing the best service to the community .
the chief executive was confident that the civil service would continue to play a vital part in building a better future for the hong kong special administrative region .
mr tung added that he would be delivering his $number policy address in $number days and urged all civil servants to contribute their efforts towards implementing the policies set out in the policy address .
new order of coins to meet demand the government announced today ( friday ) that it has confirmed the placement of an order for $number pieces of coins to be delivered to hong kong over the next few months .
about $number per cent of the new order will be in smaller denominations of $number cents , $number cents and $number cents as these are in greater demand than coins of larger denominations .
the order brings the total new coins expected to be placed into circulation in a year to a record $number pieces .
" this quantity of order is unprecedented as the normal order volume per year is $number to $number pieces in the past , " said a spokesman for the hong kong monetary authority (hkma) .
year to date , the hkma has injected $number pieces of new coins into circulation , with an additional $number pieces to be injected by mid - $date .
the history of coins in hong kong exceeds $number years and the number of coins outstanding is $number pieces . of these , it is estimated that $number pieces are either held by collectors or lost during the past decades leaving $number pieces in active circulation today .
" it is expected that by early next year when all $number pieces are injected into circulation , the current coin shortage situation will be alleviated substantially , " said the hkma spokesman .
new funding system for subventing ngos the director of social welfare , mr andrew leung kin - pong , said today ( friday ) that the proposed fixed funding formula for subventing non - governmental organisations ( ngos ) would give them full discretion and maximum flexibility in the use of government subvention allocation .
the proposal was drawn up with the participation of the social welfare sector in response to the concerns expressed by the sector about the " unit grant " formula proposed last year .
" we have spent nearly six months to formulate the new formula and i sincerely hope that the proposal will be generally accepted by the sector , particularly it provides an option for existing service units to decide whether to join the new funding system , " mr leung said .
" i also hope that , in adopting the new proposed system , the ngos would have greater flexibility in the use of resources and better focus on improving the quality of services for the benefit of the community . "
he pointed out that the ngos would enjoy flexibility in the use of their subvention allocation among subvented units and in the staffing structure of their service units as well as the pay scales for their subvented staff .
under the proposal , the fixed personal emoluments (pe) grant and other charges (oc) grant would be totally managed by the agencies , which could make free virement between pe and oc grants with no claw back of unspent funds in a year except when the accumulation of such unspent funds exceed $number per cent of the agencies ' annual subvention .
the mid - point pe will be calculated according to the recognised staffing structure with a $number deduction for natural wastage or vacancy , plus a factor of $number per cent representing the average provident fund contribution by the government .
mr leung explained that the pe funding would be adjusted in line with the annual civil service salary adjustment and the oc grant , which would be provided in a lump sum based on existing recognised levels and adjusted according to inflation .
" while existing units can opt to stay on the existing funding system , all new service units will be funded under the new formula , " he said .
on service performance , mr leung revealed that a new monitoring system , which includes a set of service quality standards , funding service agreements between the department and the ngos , and a service performance assessment system , would also be introduced .
the new subvention system , comprising the optional funding formula and an enhanced service performance monitoring system , is scheduled to be implemented by phases from $date next year .
" the funding formula as proposed is not cast in stone and constructive views from the sector are welcome in order to help them overcome their difficulties , " mr leung concluded .
members of the social welfare advisory committee , rehabilitation advisory committee , elderly commission and subvention and lotteries fund advisory committee were today briefed on the proposed funding system by the director .
board members , managers and staff of the ngos will also be consulted in the coming weeks .
the proposed subvention system forms part of the social welfare subvention system review , which commenced in $date .
tunnel to link discovery bay with north lantau a tunnel scheme joining discovery bay and cheung tung road , siu ho wan , near the north lantau highway will be built by early $number .
the tunnel will provide residents of discovery bay a convenient and direct land access to the new airport at chek lap kok and tung chung , serving as a useful alternative to the current ferry service .
moreover , it will serve as a contingency route to the new airport in times of emergency .
the project features a $number - metre carriageway which consists of a $number - metre tunnel , two elevated roads and related footways .
construction works will include drainage , landscaping and slope works .
under the discovery bay tunnel link ordinance , the whole project will be undertaken by a private developer who will be responsible for the construction , maintenance and operation of the tunnel .
a notice for the tunnel plan was published in the gazette today ( friday ) .
details of the plan can be inspected at the central and western district office , islands district office and district lands office ( islands ) . these offices are situated at $number pier road , harbour building , central .
phase i of mtr tseung kwan o extension gazetted the railway scheme for the mass transit railway (mtr) tseung kwan o extension ( phase $number ) was gazetted today ( friday ) .
the proposed railway scheme will provide an approximately $number - kilometre electrified railway system .
works will involve the construction of a tseung kwan o line formed by connecting the existing mtr eastern harbour crossing on the kowloon side , through yau tong into the tseung kwan o new town ; and a diversion of the existing kwun tong line from lam tin station to tseung kwan o new town , passing through yau tong and tiu keng leng .
a government spokesman explained that the proposed tseung kwan o extension , being one of the three high priority railway projects recommended under the $number railway development strategy , would help better serve the transport needs of the residents in the growing tseung kwan o new town .
the railway will generally run underground , except for a small section near the station at po lam which will be at - grade and fully enclosed , " the spokesman said .
the proposed railway works is anticipated to start in the latter half of $number and to complete $date .
phase ii of the tseung kwan o extension will comprise a spur line to and a depot in tseung kwan o south . details are being finalised and will be gazetted under the railways ordinance at a later date .
members of the public will have , until $date , an opportunity to raise objection to the tseung kwan o extension ( phase i ) in accordance with the provisions of the railways ordinance .
lockhart road reconstruction works to tender the highways department today ( friday ) invites tenders for the reconstruction of lockhart road between canal road east and arsenal street .
the works comprise : * reconstruction of existing carriageway and footpaths * laying of one metre - diameter steel fresh water pipes * associated drainage , sewerage , traffic improvement and landscaping work .
the works are scheduled to commence in $date and to be completed in $date .
details of the tender invitation were published in today 's hksar government gazette .
forms and details of the tender are obtainable from the regional highway engineer / hong kong , highways department , $number floor hennessy centre , $number hennessy road , causeway bay , hong kong .
tenders must be duly completed , sealed and marked with tender reference on a white envelope and addressed to the chairman , central tender board .
they must be placed in the government secretariat tender box in the lift lobby on the lower ground floor , east wing , central government offices , $number lower albert road , central , hong kong on or before noon on $date .
late submission will not be entertained .
the highways department 's hong kong region has designed the project and will supervise its construction .
festive lighting kicks off national day celebrations the director of home affairs , mrs shelley lau , today ( friday ) officiated at a festive lighting switch - on ceremony to kick off national day celebrations in kwun tong .
the lighting comprised $number light bulbs which presented the features of the national flag and the sar flag superimposed on a traditional dragon and chinese characters declaring celebration of the national day , the birth year of the people 's republic of china " $number " and " $number " and the names of the co - organisers - the kwun tong district office and the kwun tong provisional district board .
additionally , colourful bunting and red lanterns are hoisted along major streets in the district .
other officiating guests included the kwun tong district officer , mr tsang hing - kay , and the kwun tong provisional district board chairman , mr hau shui - pui .
this was said today ( friday ) by the commissioner of customs and excise , mr lawrence li shu - fai , at a cheque presentation ceremony in which he received a donation of $ $number from the board of management of the chinese permanent cemeteries charity donation , for the establishment of the fund .
mr li , when receiving the cheque from mr paul yu shiu - tin and mr richard tang yat - sun , members of the board , expressed gratitude to the invaluable support of the organisation .
" i expect that there will be more donations in future so that more children of our junior staff could benefit from the trust fund .
" the fund will be used to support the education of children of junior customs officers . its establishment would undoubtedly further boost their morale , " he noted .
provisional statistics of restaurant receipts & purchases the value of total receipts for the restaurants sector in $number quarter of $number , estimated at $ $number , increased by $number when compared with the same quarter $date .
the value of total purchases of restaurants increased by $number to $ $number .
these are the provisional figures on restaurant receipts and purchases released today ( friday ) by the census and statistics department .
after discounting the effect of price changes over the period , total restaurant receipts increased by $number in volume .
compared with a year ago , the total receipts of bars had the most rapid growth , showing an increase of $number in value and $number in volume .
likewise , the total receipts of fast food shops and chinese restaurants also went up , by $number and $number in value respectively .
in volume terms , they both rose by $number . the total receipts of non - chinese restaurants increased by $number in value and $number in volume .
besides , the total receipts of miscellaneous eating and drinking places increased by $number in value , but decreased by $number in volume .
compared with the preceding quarter , and bearing in mind that such comparison is affected by seasonal factors , total receipts for the restaurants sector in $number quarter of $number decreased by $number in value and $number in volume .
comparing $number half of $number with the same period of $number , total restaurant receipts rose by $number in value and $number in volume .
restaurant receipts in volume terms are derived from receipts in value terms after adjusting for price changes . the relevant components of the consumer price index are used for this deflating purpose .
the report on the quarterly survey of restaurant receipts and purchases for $number quarter of $number is now on sale at $ $number per copy at the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway ; and the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries about the survey results may be directed to the wholesale and retail trade statistics section of the census and statistics department ( tel . no. : $number $number ) .
maintenance of drainage systems in the new territories the drainage services department will carry out maintenance and construction works in tai po , tuen mun , yuen long and north district to ensure proper functioning of the drainage systems in these districts .
the maintenance works will cover all existing public sewers , stormwater drains , pumping stations , flood storage ponds and sewage treatment facilities .
to improve the drainage systems further , minor sewers , drains , drainage structures and plants will also be constructed where necessary .
the maintenance works will begin in $date next year for completion in two years .
meanwhile , drainage works will be carried out in yuen long to help relieve flooding there .
the works will include the construction of an embankment , a drainage channel , roads and stormwater drainage systems as well as the maintenance of a navigation channel in shan pui river .
as part of the works , the tai tong east borrow area will be excavated to provide filling materials for the embankment .
mangrove will be planted along the drainage channel to preserve the ecological environment .
the works will begin in $date for completion in early $number .
ordinance to improve child care services the child care centres ( amendment ) ordinance $number , which was passed by the legislative council in may this year , will come into force on tuesday ( $date ) .
the amended ordinance , to be renamed child care services ordinance , introduces new legal provisions to exempt mutual help child care centres from certain controls , prohibit unsuitable people from acting as childminders , and to improve the quality of child care services .
a social welfare department spokesman today ( saturday ) explained that under the amended ordinance , mutual help child care groups are operated by bona fide non - profit - making organisations , such as social welfare agencies , church bodies , women 's centres , kaifong associations and mutual aid committees .
children of the group members are looked after on an occasional basis by volunteers or parents in the mutual help care centre operated in premises occupied by the parent organisations or the groups concerned on a roster system , he said .
" mutual help child care centres which could help tackle the problem of leaving children unattended at home , are exempted from the full set of requirements for registration under the amendment ordinance to facilitate their operation , " the spokesman said .
" however , to safeguard the interest of children receiving occasional care and supervision in the centre , the centre will have to fulfil a set of criteria laid down in the ordinance and regulations in order to be exempted , " he added .
a centre issued with a certificate of exemption is subject to social welfare department 's inspection .
" any person who operates a mutual help child care centre without exemption is guilty of an offence , " he warned .
on childminding , the spokesman pointed out that at present there was no control over these activities where care was provided to fewer than six young children under six years old .
in recent years , he said , incidents had occurred in which babies and young children had suffered serious neglect or physical abuses from their childminders .
after careful deliberation , the government concluded that the most appropriate form of control would be to prohibit unsuitable persons from acting as childminders .
" the amendment ordinance prohibits a person from acting as a childminder if he or she has been convicted of any specific serious offences , " the spokesman said .
the director of social welfare will be empowered to determine a person to be unsuitable to act as a childminder on the basis of the findings of a coroner 's inquiry concerning the death of a child while in his or her care as a childminder .
the new legal provisions allow a prohibited person to request from the director a declaration that he or she should no longer be deemed a prohibited person .
a childminder may also request the director to issue a certificate verifying that he or she is not prohibited from childminding .
parents can thus ask a potential childminder to show them the certificate to help them assess his or her suitability to look after their child .
the provisions also provide the right of appeal against the director 's determination to the administrative appeals board .
there are also a number of technical amendments aimed at improving the quality of care provided for children in child care centres .
the department has published a pamphlet to help parents how to choose a suitable childminder .
it will also organise a series of briefings for social workers , interested persons and organisations to help them understand the new legal provisions better .
building owners fined under wiring law the owners ' corporation and property management of a hung hom building were together fined $ $number in $number prosecution taken out under the electricity ( wiring ) regulations .
the regulations require the owner of any low voltage fixed electrical installation carrying an approved loading exceeding $number amperes to have it inspected , tested and certified at least once every five years .
" the regulations came into operation on $date , which means buildings completed before this date should have complied with the provision by $date this year , " a spokesman for the electrical and mechanical services department said today ( saturday ) .
the two defendants were the incorporated owners of summit building and its management agent , goodwell property management limited .
both pleaded guilty to the following offences and were each fined $ $number : - failing to make available the latest periodic test certificate for inspection - failing to inspect , test and certify a low voltage fixed electrical installation that has an approved loading exceeding $number amperes at least once every five years - failing to deliver a periodic test certificate to the director of electrical and mechanical services for endorsement the case was heard at the san po kong magistracy on $date ( thursday ) .
" the objective of the periodic test is to ensure safety by minimising the risk of fire , electric shock and interruption to electricity supply as a result of unsafe installations , " the spokesman said .
" we appeal to all building owners to comply with the regulations in their own interest , " he said , adding that the department was determined to take to court unco - operative building owners .
welfare payment arrangements for public holidays due to the public holidays on $date , recipients of comprehensive social security assistance (cssa) whose pay days fall on these days and the day before ( $date ) will receive their payments on monday ( $date ) if they have payment accounts with the hong kong bank or hang seng bank .
other cssa recipients with the same pay days will get their payments on tuesday ( $date ) .
" special payment arrangements will also be made for recipients of social security allowance , " a social welfare department spokesman said today ( saturday ) .
" those who should be paid through the hong kong bank or hang seng bank on the public holidays will have their pay days advanced to $date . " however , those who should be paid through other banks on $date , $date will get their payments after the public holidays on $date , " he added .
in case of doubt , recipients are advised to contact their respective social security field units .
electoral affairs commission formally established the government announces today ( monday ) the establishment of the three - member electoral affairs commission (eac) , an independent body to oversee practical arrangements for the elections .
established under the electoral affairs commission ordinance , the eac is responsible for making recommendations on geographical constituency boundaries and for the conduct and supervision of elections .
it will supervise the registration of electors and make arrangements to ensure that the elections are conducted openly , fairly and honestly .
the eac will also report to the chief executive on matters relating to elections .
the chief executive has appointed the honourable mr justice woo kwok - hing as the eac chairman , and mr norman leung nai - pang and ms elizabeth shing as members . the appointments , which take effect from today , are for a period of three years .
mr justice woo is a judge of the court of $number instance of the high court . he joined the bench $date after years of private practice as a barrister in hong kong . he has recently completed an inquiry into the garley building fire .
he was chairman of the former boundary and election commission .
mr justice woo was a legal adviser to citizens under the law society 's free legal advice scheme $number .
he was a committee member of the hong kong bar association $number and the chief external examiner of the post graduate course in laws of the university of hong kong $date $number .
he took silk $date .
he served on the registration of persons tribunal $number and on the criminal and law enforcement injuries compensation board $number .
he has been head of the department of law and business , hong kong shue yan college , and a member of the new york state bar $date .
mr norman leung is the deputy - chairman of the city bus group limited .
he has been involved in a wide range of public service , including a number of public boards and committees .
he served the television advisory board $number , the land and building advisory committee $number , the legal practitioners disciplinary committee panel $number and the hong kong housing authority $number .
mr leung is currently the chairman of the broadcasting authority and the council of city university of hong kong , and the commissioner of the civil aid service . he was also a member of the former boundary and election commission .
she has extensive experience in the management field and has served in various advisory committees including the corruption prevention advisory committee of the independent commission against corruption , the metrication committee , and the committee on management and supervisory training of the vocational training council .
ms shing is currently a member of several advisory committees on the business and social sciences field in academic institutions including advisory committee on business & management studies , hong kong polytechnic university and course advisory committee , ba ( hons ) in arts & social sciences , hong kong baptist university .
eligible voters urged to register the secretary for home affairs , mr david lan , today ( monday ) urged eligible voters to show their support for $number special administrative region legislative council election in may next year by registrating themselves .
speaking at a national day reception in kwun tong , mr lan stressed that an open and fair election was crucial to the development of a balanced political system .
he added that the home affairs bureau would attach the highest priority in its work to the voter registration exercise and election next year .
" the home affairs department will mobilise its staff to carry out a door - to - door voter registration exercise to be launched at the end of this year , " he said .
other officiating guests included executive council member mr tam yiu - chung ; the kwun tong district officer , mr tsang hing - kay ; a director of xinhua news agency hong kong branch 's kowloon office , mr ye yao ; and the kwun tong provisional district board chairman , mr hau shui - pui .
survey reveals increased public confidence the home affairs bureau 's latest bimonthly public opinion survey has revealed a more buoyant mood and confident outlook among the people of hong kong as compared with previous survey findings .
conducted in $date over the telephone , it showed that $number per cent were confident that hong kong would continue to be prosperous and stable , which is eight percentage points higher than a similar survey conducted in $date .
moreover , $number per cent of the respondents expected the situation to improve or remain unchanged in the coming $number months , which is also up by eight percentage points .
an hab spokesman said this optimistic outlook was collaborated by the finding that only $number of the $number survey respondents considered hong kong 's future to be a problem , which is lower compared to $number in the last survey .
" additionally , $number per cent of the people were satisfied with the present situation , which is four percentage points higher than in the last survey , " he added .
he noted that the positive outlook appeared to have carried over to the public 's perception of government 's performance , which has won the approval of $number per cent of the people , representing a three percentage point improvement .
of the three most often mentioned problems , housing remains on top of the list at $number per cent , followed by social welfare related ( $number per cent ) and labour - related ( $number per cent ) problems .
new immigrants as a problem was mentioned by $number of respondents ( last time $number ) . among these people , $number per cent were concerned that the new arrivals from china would place additional burden on the society ( down from $number per cent ) .
the survey , $number in the series , also revealed that among people who mentioned housing related problems , $number per cent ( up from $number per cent ) considered that government had exerted effort in addressing the issue .
residential mortgage survey results for $date new mortgage activity slowed in $date according to the results of the latest monthly survey conducted by the hong kong monetary authority (hkma) .
gross new loans made during the month fell sharply by $number to $ $number , after the rise of $number in $date .
the average size of new loans increased to $ $number compared with $ $number in $date .
the amount of outstanding mortgage loans rose more slowly , by $number to $ $number in $date , compared to the $number increase in $date .
the annualised rate of growth of outstanding loans in the three months to $date decreased to $number from $number in $date .
the average change over the last $number months increased to $number from $number in $date .
new loans approved during the month dropped by $number to $ $number , reflecting the reduced market activity in late $date and $date .
loans approved during the month but not yet drawn also decreased by $number from $ $number in $date to $ $number in $date .
of the new loans approved during $date , $number were priced at best lending rate , slightly up from $number in $date .
this reflected an increase in the proportion of loan approvals for the primary market in $date . however , loans priced at $number above best lending rate increased $number , indicating some hardening in mortgage rates .
" the slower pace of new loan approvals appears to have continued in $date , " said mr david carse , the deputy chief executive of the hong kong monetary authority .
" however , the amount of existing undrawn commitments to lend suggests that outstanding loans will continue to grow quite rapidly . " gross loans for the purchase of properties in mainland china decreased to $ $number in $date from $ $number in $date .
the amount of outstanding loans increased by $number to $ $number .
meanwhile , the value of imports registered continued growth on a year - on - year basis . these are shown in the external trade figures for $date released today ( monday ) by the census and statistics department .
the value of total exports ( comprising re - exports and domestic exports ) in $date increased by $number over a year earlier to $ $number .
within total exports , the value of re - exports increased by $number to $ $number , while the value of domestic exports increased by $number to $ $number .
the value of imports increased by $number over a year earlier to $ $number in $date .
as the value of total exports in $date was smaller than that of total imports , a visible trade deficit of $ $number , equivalent to $number of the value of imports , was recorded . this was larger than the corresponding deficit of $ $number , equivalent to $number of the value of imports , in $date .
for $number eight months of $number as a whole , the value of total exports increased by $number over the same period last year .
amongst this , the value of re - exports rose by $number , while that of domestic exports decreased by $number .
over the same period , the value of imports showed an increase of $number .
for $number eight months of $number combined , a visible trade deficit of $ $number , equivalent to $number of the value of imports , was recorded . this was larger than the deficit of $ $number , equivalent to $number of the value of imports , recorded in the same period $date .
commenting on the latest trade statistics , a government secretariat spokesman said that the value of hong kong 's domestic exports showed a notable rebound in $date .
taking $number eight months of $number together , the value of domestic exports declined by only $number over a year earlier , much smaller than the $number decline $date .
on the other hand , the growth of the value of re - exports in $date slowed down somewhat .
for $number eight months of $number combined , the value of re - exports rose by $number over a year earlier , having grown by $number $date .
nevertheless , given further easing in export prices so far this year , growth of re - exports in real terms in $number eight months of $number should be comparable to that $date .
domestic exports should have also ceased to decline in real terms .
meanwhile , in line with the robust domestic demand , the value of retained imports registered a double - digit growth in $date .
the table annexed presents the external trade figures in $date .
a more detailed analysis of hong kong 's external trade for $date , by commodity and country , will be released in mid - $date .
importation of strategic commodities requires licence a master of an ocean vessel and the local agent of the vessel were today ( monday ) fined a total of $ $number at western magistracy for committing offences under the import and export ordinance in relation to the importation of strategic commodities - an armoured vehicle , spare parts for armoured vehicle , a machine gun and $number smoke canisters , without a valid licence .
the strategic commodities in question valued about $ $number .
the court heard that on $date this year , during a cargo examination on board a vessel " wing son " just arrived from bangkok , thailand , officers of the customs and excise department found , among other goods , the said strategic commodities in the cargo hatch of the vessel .
these strategic commodities which were of china - made had been sent to the department of royal thai army for demonstration and trial purposes , and were shipped back via hong kong to the consignee , china north industries corporation in zhang jiang , china .
a spokesman for the customs and excise department said the offence was serious .
under the import and export ordinance , the spokesman pointed out , strategic commodities are prohibited articles .
no person shall import or export strategic commodities into and out of hong kong except under and in accordance with a licence granted by the trade department .
the licensing control on strategic commodities aims at ensuring hong kong 's continued access to high - technology goods and up - to - date technology which are essential for maintaining hong kong 's status as a regional centre of finance , trade , banking and telecommunication , and preventing hong kong from being used as a conduit for the proliferation of strategically - sensitive goods , arms , munitions or chemical / biological / nuclear weapons .
the maximum penalty on summary conviction for importing / exporting strategic commodities without a licence is a fine of $ $number and imprisonment for two years .
monetary statistics for $date according to statistics published today ( monday , $date ) by the hong kong monetary authority , total deposits and loans and advances fell slightly during $date .
table $number gives a summary and comparisons with earlier months .
deposits - - - - - - - - total deposits declined by $number in $date , reversing a $number rise in $date .
the fall was primarily attributable to a $number drop in hk $ deposits , which more than offset an increase of $number in foreign currency deposits .
the fall in hk $ deposits was across - the - board , partly reflecting the less buoyant asset markets .
during the month , demand deposits dropped by a marked $number , while savings deposits declined by $number .
on the other hand , time deposits only fell by $number , following a rise of $number in $date , as higher deposit rates continued to be offered by banks in response to sustained high interbank rates .
us $ foreign currency deposits rose by a modest $number in $date , having edged up by the same rate in the previous month , while non - us $ foreign currency deposits were virtually unchanged , after a $number decline in $date .
loans and advances - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - in line with the fall in deposits , total loans and advances declined by $number in $date , having dropped by $number in $date .
during the month , domestic credit expansion slowed further to $number , as loans for trade financing reduced by $number and other domestic loans grew more moderately at $number .
meanwhile , offshore loans fell by $number , having declined by $number in the previous month .
analyzed by currency , hk $ loans were up slightly by $number in $date , while foreign currency loans decreased by $number .
as hk $ loans increased but hk $ deposits declined , the hk $ loan - to - deposit ratio edged up from $number at end - $date to $number at end - $date .
money supply - - - - - - - - - - - - hong kong dollar money supply fell in $date across - the - board , with hk $ m1 dropping by $number and hk $ m2 and hk $ m3 declining by $number and $number respectively .
compared to a year earlier , hk $ m1 , hk $ m2 and hk $ m3 rose by $number , $number and $number respectively .
notwithstanding the slow - down , the annual growth in hk $ m3 continued to outpace that of nominal gdp .
clinic service on public holidays the department of health announced today ( monday ) that $number general out - patient clinics will be open from $number am to $number pm on the forthcoming holidays on $date ( national day and the day following national day ) .
the $number clinics are violet peel health centre and shau kei wan jockey club clinic on hong kong island ; kwun tong jockey club health centre , robert black health centre , and yau ma tei jockey club clinic in kowloon ; and lady trench polyclinic , shek wu hui jockey club clinic , yuen long jockey club health centre , lek yuen health centre , and tuen mun clinic in the new territories .
further details on the opening of these clinics are available by calling the department of health 's central health education unit hotline on $number $number .
maps indicating the locations and ways of getting to the $number clinics will be available at all dh 's general out - patient clinics and public hospitals with accident and emergency units to facilitate members of the public to visit the clinics .
posters will also be put up at district offices and housing department offices .
meanwhile , the department of health has made arrangements with eight paging companies to display messages on the opening of government holiday clinics on pagers during the holidays .
the eight paging companies are abc communication limited , asia paging company limited , chevalier paging services limited , hong kong telecom csl , hutchison telecom (hk) limited , new world telephone , stars telecom limited and telepaging limited .
tunnels to remain fully open during national day holidays the transport department announces today ( monday ) that the five government tunnels will remain fully open during the national day holidays on $date .
a spokesman for the department said no tunnel tubes would be closed for maintenance and radio broadcasts of safety messages would also be stepped up .
these are additional control and safety measures on tunnel operations during holidays .
the five government tunnels are aberdeen tunnel , lion rock tunnel , airport tunnel , shing mun tunnels and tseung kwan o tunnel .
the spokesman added that operators of the four private tunnels - cross harbour tunnel , western harbour tunnel , tate 's cairn tunnel , and eastern harbour tunnel - would take the same measures as far as they could arrange .
he said motorists also have a part to play in avoiding accidents inside tunnels by observing the following safety guidelines : * do not follow too close to the vehicle in front ; * observe the speed limit ; * keep in lane ; * observe traffic ahead ; * use dipped headlights ; * avoid wearing earphones or using mobile telephones when driving ; and * do not drink any alcohol before and / or when driving .
the spokesman urged motorists to drive with care and patience when driving inside tunnels or on open roads .
labour department to launch home page the home page of the labour department will be launched tomorrow ( tuesday ) to facilitate members of the public to get easy access to the latest news on labour legislation and the major upcoming events of the department .
the information contained in the home page includes the organisation , vision and mission and performance pledge of the department ; services offered in the programme areas of employment services , occupational safety and health , labour relations and employees rights and benefits ; and publications issued by the department .
the home page is accessible in english and can be reached through the government information centre on the internet or at the web site address : http://www.info.gov.hk/labour .
the e - mail address is : laboureq@labour.gcn.gov.hk .
the chinese version of the home page will be ready within the next few months .
directory for small and medium enterprises released the small and medium enterprises ( smes ) committee published a directory on services and facilities available to smes today ( monday ) .
the directory sets out the support services and facilities provided to smes by the various local industrial and trade organisations ( itos ) , support organisations , higher education institutions and government departments .
it also contains information on the regulations which smes should pay particular attention to when setting up and operating their businesses in hong kong .
" this directory is a comprehensive directory and is $number publication of this sort in hong kong which targets at smes , " the chairman of the smes committee , mr denis lee , said .
" smes account for the bulk of the enterprises in hong kong .
we hope that this directory can enhance their knowledge of the services and facilities available to them and facilitate their contact with the support agencies and organisations , " he added .
enquiries about the publication can be directed to the industry department on $number $number .
speedpost service to sarawak resumed the postmaster general , mr robert footman , announced today ( monday ) that as the weather condition in sarawak has improved , the speedpost service to sarawak is resumed with immediate effect .
however , due to the uncertainty of the haze condition in sarawak , the service may be subject to delay .
a further announcement will be made as soon as the service returns to normal .
quarterly report on the general household survey on sale the bilingual report on the general household survey for $date is available for sale .
the report contains statistics on employment , unemployment and underemployment for $number quarter of $number .
it also contains detailed analyses of the characteristics of members of the labour force , including their age , sex , educational attainment , activity status , occupation , industry , hours worked per week and monthly employment earnings .
data on reasons for unemployment and duration of unemployment for the unemployed are also presented .
copies of the report at $ $number each can be obtained from the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong .
meanwhile , the census and statistics department will continue to conduct the general household survey during the quarter $date .
the survey , conducted on a continuous basis , aims to collect information on the labour force , unemployment and underemployment .
an official letter will be sent to the sampled households prior to each survey month to explain the purpose of the survey and to seek their voluntary co - operation .
officers of the department will visit the households concerned to collect the required information .
when visiting households , they carry with them a government identity card and a certificate for conducting the survey . they will make such documents available for inspection by households .
to make it more convenient for both the households and the department , the sampled households could telephone the department to make prior appointment for visit by the interviewers .
transcript of chief executive following is the transcript of the remarks made by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , at a media session after the executive council meeting today ( tuesday ) : i want to make a few remarks with regard to the provisional legco 's activities on the legislative council bill .
we really regret these changes . having said that , michael suen , our government , is now looking very hard at areas where changes are being made , particularly with regard to the voter registration for two particular functional constituencies .
and we are looking at it very quickly with a view to clarify the situation , to make sure that the voter registration can go forward smoothly and that after we have the chance to review this we 'll go back to the provisional legco to get their approval before we move forward . let me emphasise that the original intention to have the election in may has not been changed , the schedule has not been affected .
and number two is that there will be obvious amendments and they are very small nature compare with the entire proposal the government originally has made . and i 'm quite sure that the may election will be good , will be credible and will be open and fair and will be accepted to hong kong people .
review of five labour - related ordinances completed the government has proposed a package of legislative proposals to give effect to the recommendations arising from a review it recently completed on five labour - related ordinances which were passed by the previous legislative council in late $date .
the review was conducted following a decision by the provisional legislative council (plc) on $date to suspend the operation of three of these five ordinances until $date .
arising from the review , the government now proposes to amend three and repeal two of these ordinances .
the three ordinances to be amended comprise one on control of trade union activities which was suspended , the one on making $date a statutory holiday and the one on compensation for occupational deafness , whilst the two ordinances proposed for repeal are the ones on anti - union discrimination and collective bargaining which were suspended .
the acting secretary for education and manpower , mr matthew cheung kin - chung said after briefing the plc 's manpower panel today ( tuesday ) that the administration had carefully scrutinised and thoroughly reviewed all of the five labour - related ordinances . " the package of legislative proposals seek to give effect to the results of this review , " mr cheung noted .
" the proposals were drawn up on the basis of the recommendations of the labour advisory board (lab) which had examined the five ordinances most carefully through serious and detailed deliberations .
as such , they strike a reasonable balance between the interests of employers and employees .
" the proposals are in the overall interest of the community , and have taken into account hong kong 's socio - economic developments .
" we plan to introduce the bills into the plc on $date , and hope that legislators will accord priority to examining these proposals and reach an early conclusion on them , in view of the imminent expiry date of the suspension period of the three suspended ordinances on $date , " he said .
explaining the legislative proposals , mr cheung said , " having carefully scrutinised their impact , we consider it inappropriate to bring the two ordinances on anti - union discrimination and collective bargaining into operation .
however , we will work closely with the lab to review the existing legislative provisions on protection of employees against anti - union discrimination , especially on reinstatement , and to explore modes of negotiation and collective bargaining best suited to hong kong . "
" to further promote voluntary negotiation and better communication between employers and employees , the labour department will set up a special team to step up the promotion of voluntary negotiation at the enterprise level , " he said .
as regards the legislative amendments to the ordinance on control of trade union activities which has been suspended , the government proposes to adopt some of the proposals under the suspended ordinance .
" these include removing the prohibition against federation of trade unions belonging to different trades , industries and occupations , reinstating some of the previous provisions under the original ordinance such as the restrictions on the use of trade union funds , and introducing some new provisions such as allowing a trade union to be a member of a related organisation in foreign countries without the need for prior approval from the government , " mr cheung said .
" these proposals aim at ensuring the healthy development of trade unions in hong kong , " he noted .
turning to the bill on statutory holidays , mr cheung said that the government had completed a comprehensive review of the statutory holiday provisions .
" having regard to the lab 's advice , we propose to make $date and $date statutory holidays in place of the existing two floating holidays and to make $date an additional statutory holiday with effect from $number , instead of $number , " he said .
" to defer the commencement year of making $date a statutory holiday will enable the government to resolve the anomaly of $date not being included on the list of general holidays which apply to banks , schools and government offices .
we will consult widely on whether $date should be an additional general holiday , hence adding the total number of general holidays from the existing $number , or whether it should replace one of the existing general holidays , hence capping the total at the current level of $number . "
the bill on compensation for occupational deafness seeks to give effect to the outcome of a comprehensive review of the occupational deafness compensation scheme , which also took into account the effects of the amendment ordinance ( one of the two ordinances the plc decided not to suspend in $date ) .
the review has recommended a $number - item improvement package , including expanding the coverage of the scheme and to streamline its operational procedures .
" as a result , we propose to retain the provision to lower the minimum deafness threshold from 5 0 db to 4 0 db , to adjust downwards the scale of degree of permanent incapacity for the purpose of compensation and to implement a series of improvement measures , " mr cheung said .
" the major measures mainly include adding eight noisy occupations to the existing list of $number specified noisy occupations for which compensation is payable so as to enable a larger number of claimants to become eligible to compensation , and waiving the requirement for the cost of hearing test and medical examination , " he said , noting that some $number people are employed under the proposed eight occupations .
" to enable the occupational deafness compensation board to have enough funds to finance these improvement proposals , we also propose to increase the rate of levy on employees ' compensation insurance premium by $number per cent , " he explained .
" this substantial package of proposals represents a sensible and pragmatic balance which can facilitate both the expansion of the scheme and the implementation of the series of other improvements arising from the review , without jeopardising the right of eligible claimants to compensation payments in the light of the financial conditions of the board .
" we also propose to put in place a transitional arrangement whereby those who submitted their claims before our proposed amendments come into effect will continue to enjoy the higher rate of compensation in accordance with the existing amendment ordinance , " he added .
relocation of cs and fs 's offices the chief secretary for administration 's private office , the financial secretary 's private office and the administration wing will operate in its new offices on $number / f , central government offices , west wing , central , hong kong with effect from friday ( $date ) .
the telephone and fax numbers of the offices will remain unchanged .
refurbishment of the chief executive 's office on $number / f , central government offices , main wing , will commence immediately .
flag - raising ceremony to continue a government spokesman announced today ( tuesday ) that the ceremonial raising of the national flag will continue everyday after the national day tomorrow .
the ceremony will take place at the seafront promenade of the hong kong convention and exhibition centre extension near the gold bauhinia sculpture , he added .
flypast on national day to celebrate the national day , a formation flypast with six aircrafts ( two fixed - wing , two blackhawk helicopters and two s76 helicopters ) will be staged over victoria harbour from the west ( green island ) to the east ( quarry bay ) at $number pm tomorrow ( wednesday ) .
the formation will be led by the controller , government flying service , with the national flag and the hksar regional flag suspended underneath the helicopters .
calling name display service the telecommunications authority (ta) has approved the introduction of calling name display (cnamd) service in hong kong .
the ta 's approval follows consultation with the telecommunications standards advisory committee and the telecommunications users and consumers advisory committee in $date .
the cnamd service is an enhanced feature of the calling number display (cnd) service introduced $date .
the cnamd service enables a customer to send his name , in addition to the number of his telephone line from which the call is made , to the called party .
" only customers who register for the new calling name display service will have their names transmitted to the called party , " a spokesman for ofta explained .
" customers who do not register for the new service will have only their telephone numbers transmitted to the called party , " the spokesman continued .
" the same free - of - charge blocking and unblocking functions under cnd service ( " $number " and " $number " ) will also be available to customers who register for the new calling name display service .
" dialling " $number " before the number that a customer wishes to call will block both the telephone number and name of the customer who has registered for the calling name display service for that particular call .
likewise , dialling " $number " before the number called will unblock the telephone number and name of the caller as in the cnd service , " said the spokesman .
all customers who have subscribed to the cnd service will receive the name information transmitted by the new cnamd service provided that their display devices are compatible with the new service .
the customers , when called , could decide whether or not to answer the call after knowing the name of the calling party .
in order to ensure information on which called party 's decision of answering calls is made is not misleading , network operators will be required to comply with a code of practice issued by the ta which provides , among other things , that the name transmitted shall be that of the registered customer for the line used in making the call .
$number cnamd service will be provided by a fixed network operator in mid - $date .
to know more about the cnamd service and the rights of individual telephone users , a detailed information leaflet published by ofta on cnamd service is available from any of the post offices or district offices .
for general enquiries , please dial the hotline $number $number during office hours .
free information service to help business set up under the industry department , the business licence information centre (blic) is one of the major initiatives of the government 's helping business programme to provide free information service on government licences , permits , certificates and approvals that businesses are required to have in order to operate .
" the task of the government , $number and foremost , is to create a business - friendly environment for business to flourish and for businessmen to maximise their entrepreneurial talent , " said the secretary for trade and industry , miss denise yue today ( tuesday ) at the opening ceremony of the blic .
" the financial secretary in his $number budget speech reiterated government 's determination to become as business - friendly as possible by the introduction of the helping business programme .
the programme focuses on cutting government red - tape , streamlining regulatory activities and improving public services to the business sector .
blic , the birth of which we have all come to witness today , is a product of this programme , " miss yue added .
" there were some $number different licences and permits administered by $number different bureaux , departments and agencies that are related to business operations of all kinds in hong kong . some of these licensing requirements cut across several licensing authorities .
while there are good reasons for maintaining a system of licences , life would definitely be much easier for prospective business operators if they can get the licensing information and forms from a single source , " miss yue said .
" with the establishment of the blic , businessmen can now look to a single agent who can give advice on the full range of licensing requirements for the business they intend to set up , " miss yue said .
" while the blic serves businesses of all kind , the centre will be particularly useful to small and medium enterprises ( smes ) which make up the vast majority of hong kong business community , and which often cannot afford the service of business advisers and lack the means to identify licensing requirements , " miss yue added .
users of the service can visit the centre at room $number , ocean centre , $number canton road , tsim sha tsui or contact it by phone ( tel . $number $number ) .
the blic will reply by sending information by fax or mail .
business licence information will be available on the internet $date to facilitate easy access .
" the notice will be exhibited at the marriage registry where it is given and also at the marriage registration and records office for at least $number clear days .
if no objection is received after that period , the marriage may take place within a period of three months , otherwise the notice becomes void and fresh notice must be given . "
" in order to ensure that every member of the public will have a fair chance to choose a desired day for marriage , appointments for marriage ceremonies are given on a $number - come - $number - served basis , " the spokesman added .
for enquiry , members of the public may telephone $number $number or through the faxline $number $number .
$number population by - census tab on cd - rom released a new cd - rom product , called tab on cd - rom , containing the results of the $number population by - census , has been put on sale by the census and statistics department .
a vast amount of data on a broad range of socio - economic characteristics of the population were collected from the $number population by - census .
a series of printed reports on the by - census results had been published in stages .
as there is a demand for more detailed statistical tables not included in the reports , the census and statistics department produces the tab on cd - rom .
the tab on cd - rom contains $number commonly used statistical tables on the demographic , household , education , labour force , housing , internal migration and home moving characteristics of the population .
each table is provided in two forms : a print file form for viewing and printing and a data set form for computation .
as the tables in the tab on cd - rom are in electronic form , users can easily retrieve the data and re - compile them in a format that will meet their own needs .
the tab on cd - rom is hence a handy tool for everyday work , study and research .
another related cd - rom product , which contains a set of digital maps of hong kong , will also be released by the census and statistics department soon . the digital maps will facilitate geographical presentation of the data contained in the tab on cd - rom .
at $ $number per set , the tab on cd - rom can be purchased from the census and statistics department ( addresses : $number / f , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai or $number / f , fortress tower , $number king 's road , north point , hong kong ) .
for enquiries on the product , please call $number $number .
hkadc nomination exercise the registration of voters and nomination of candidates for the hong kong arts development council (adc) nomination exercise will close on friday ( $date ) .
the three - week registration commenced after the gazettal of specified nominating bodies of respective arts interests on $date .
eligible organizations and individuals were respectively specified as members of the $number concerned arts interests , namely : literary arts , music , dance , drama , visual arts , film arts , arts administration , arts education , arts criticism and traditional performances .
the nominated representatives of the above - mentioned arts interests will be considered by the chief executive for appointment to the adc .
the current term of office of the adc will end on $date and the new term will begin on $date .
all members of the $number nominating bodies of the respective arts interests have been informed in writing and been invited to take part in the registration process by pa professional consultants ltd (papc) , an independent consultancy commissioned by the government , to be the organizer cum nomination agent for this exercise .
the broadcasting , culture and sport bureau (bcsb) , the responsible government bureau for this nomination exercise , will convene a meeting with the candidates after the closing of registration with a view to mapping out the details for the electioneering and polling arrangements .
the nomination agent , papc , will send out publicity materials on behalf of the candidates .
public forums will also be organized in early $date for electioneering purpose .
the polling day is scheduled for $date ( sunday ) .
for enquiries , please contact mr vincent tang of the bcsb at $number $number or miss kathy chan of papc at $number $number or by pager $number $number end
certificate course in building management members of the public , owners ' corporations and mutual aid committees in kowloon city are invited to take part in a two - day certificate course in building management next month .
the course comprises a seminar and a visit .
the seminar will focus on three topics : a briefing on the " building safety inspection scheme " , " the importance of fire prevention & fire services installations in buildings " and " the functions and responsibilities of security guards and the obligation and liabilities of the employers " .
speakers include representatives from the building department and the fire services department and a property manager .
the seminar will be held on $date ( saturday ) from $number pm to $number pm at the kowloon city district office conference room , $number floor , one harbourfront , $number tak fung street , hung hom .
course participants will visit the tsim sha tsui fire station on $date ( tuesday ) .
application forms are now available at the kowloon city district office . deadline for application is $date .
enquiries can be made at $number $number or $number $number .
works to improve fresh and salt water supply systems the water supplies department will carry out two mainlaying projects in $date to improve the fresh and salt water supply systems in tuen mun and central kowloon .
$number project will include the laying of $number kilometres of fresh water mains with a diameter of $number millimetres between tuen mun fresh water pumping station and pillar point . about $number kilometres of salt water mains with a diameter of $number millimetres will also be laid between tuen mun salt water pumping station and pillar point .
upon completion in $date , fresh and salt water supply will be improved to meet the rising demand from the western areas of tuen mun .
the department will also lay $number kilometres of salt water mains from kowloon city to lok fu salt water service reservoir and diamond hill salt water service reservoir with diameters ranging $number millimetres .
the works are expected to be completed in $number months .
tram parade to publicise csd musical rally for charities a " musical rally for the community " by the $number hong kong group scouts of the correctional services department (csd) will be held on $date .
the public can $number watch a tram parade to publicise this spectacular event on friday ( $date ) afternoon along the tram route from whitty street to causeway bay .
pipe band members of the scouts will perform in the parade .
staff of csd ; the president of the scout group , mr steve lau hon - wah ; and the chairman of the group , mr herman hui chung - shing , will give a short briefing on the programmes of the musical rally and csd scouting activities after the official launching of the tram parade .
the musical rally , a community service by csd scouts will be held at queen elizabeth stadium in wan chai .
proceeds from ticket sales will be donated to charities .
tickets are now available at urbtix outlets .
interim report on balcony collapse at marble road failure in the bonding between the concrete and the corroded reinforcement was a major cause for the collapse of a balcony in a north point building last $date .
the findings were contained in the interim technical report by the buildings department after investigation and laboratory tests of concrete samples collected following the incident on $date . the collapse , on $number floor of 1 p marble road , injured five people .
a spokesman for the department said today ( thursday ) that results of the tests indicated that the steel reinforcing bars had been exposed to a corrosive environment , resulting in water ingress , carbonation and a high chloride content in the concrete .
" the steel bars had corroded seriously , thus reducing the bar diameter and the bond resistance .
" the tests also found the strength of the concrete below the design requirement because the cement content was lower than normal , " he said .
" deterioration of concrete may probably be another contributing factor , " he added .
other causes leading to the collapse include displaced reinforcing bars , additional loading on the balcony , cracks formed in the concrete cover of the reinforcement and ingress of moisture .
all these contributed to the structural failure of the balcony .
the full report of the investigation , which will make recommendations and report on follow - up action , is expected to be completed by the end of the year .
no mail delivery on public holidays the postmaster general , mr robert footman , announced today ( thursday ) that there would be no mail delivery during the forthcoming public holiday on $date ( chung yeung festival ) . all post offices would be closed .
however , one mail collection would be arranged for all street posting boxes except those which are located on outlying islands and in remote areas . the time of collection is shown on the time - plate of each posting box .
urban and western sections of west rail ( phase i ) gazetted the urban and western sections of the kowloon - canton railway corporation (kcrc) west rail ( phase i ) was published in the gazette today ( friday ) .
an sar government spokesman said : " the construction of west rail phase i is a top priority project to provide a much - needed passenger link between northwest new territories and urban kowloon .
" the project will provide an approximately $number kilometres long electrified double - track railway system .
it will run from yen chow street at kowloon to tuen mun in northwest new territories via mei foo , tsuen wan , kam tin , yuen long and tin shui wai and will comprise nine passenger stations . "
the spokesman said : " we have been working at full gear in order to ensure that the west rail is completed as early as possible so as to provide a long - term solution to the traffic problems in northwest new territories . "
the project programme envisages completion to yuen long by the end of $number and to tuen mun by $date .
construction of the project is also expected to start in the latter half of $number after the executive council has authorised the railway scheme .
in order to meet this project programme , the tai lam tunnel section of phase i was gazetted on $date .
the remaining sections , namely the urban and western sections , are now gazetted . according to provisions in the railways ordinance , members of the public have the opportunity to raise any objection to the railway scheme of the project within $number days since its gazettal : i.e. from now until $date .
planning of phase ii of west rail , comprising cross - boundary freight and passenger services , is continuing .
ce to visit tokyo , brussels and london the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , will visit tokyo , brussels and london in $number half of this month to renew ties with japan , the united kingdom , belgium and the european union and update them on developments in hong kong after the handover .
he will be in tokyo from $date to $number , return to hong kong and then leave for europe on $date .
he will be in brussels on $date and in london from $date to $number .
mr tung will return to hong kong on $date .
during these visits , mr tung will call on political and business leaders , and brief them on the smooth transition in hong kong which demonstrates local people 's pride to return to china and confidence in " hong kong people administering hong kong " under the " one country , two systems " principle .
in tokyo , he will call on ministers , parliamentarians and senior officials of the japanese government .
arrangements have been made for him to meet with the chairman of keidanren , the chairman of the japan federation of bankers association , members of the japan hong kong business co - operation committee , as well as senior representatives of the japanese tourism industry .
mr tung will deliver a keynote speech at a luncheon jointly hosted by the hong kong trade development council , the hong kong economic and trade office in japan , the hong kong tourist association and the japan hong kong society .
in brussels , mr tung will have discussion with the president of the european commission , mr jacques santer ; ec vice - president sir leon brittan ; the belgian prime minister , mr jean - luc dehaene , and minister of foreign affairs mr eric derycke .
in london , a meeting between the chief executive and the british prime minister is being arranged . mr tung will also meet the british foreign secretary , mr robin cook , and the president of the board of trade and secretary for trade and industry , mrs margaret beckett .
the chief executive will address $number plenary session of the hk / eu and eu / hk business co - operation committees in brussels .
he will be delivering keynote speeches at chatham house ( the royal institute of international affairs ) in london and at the hong kong trade development council annual dinner in brussels and in london .
mr tung will reassure overseas audiences of hong kong 's continued role as an active regional and global player in international trade , commerce and finance .
he will also welcome international investors to come to hong kong to take advantage of the enormous business opportunities here as hong kong becomes a part of china .
partnership between asia and latin america reaffirmed the following is issued on behalf of the hong kong committee for pacific economic co - operation : the $number general meeting of the pacific economic co - operation council ( pecc xii ) was successfully concluded on $date in santiago , chile . in its " santiago statement " , the pecc reaffirms its commitment in further strengthening trans - pacific partnership between asian and latin american economies .
the three - day pecc xii meeting was $number major pecc meeting attended by the hong kong special administrative region using the name " hong kong , china " .
to demonstrate hong kong 's continued support and active participation in the pecc , a strong tripartite delegation to the pecc xii meeting was led by the chairman of the hong kong committee for pacific economic co - operation (hkcpec) , mr william fung .
the " santiago statement " said , " it is imperative to maintain the openness and stability of these economies and at the same time promote closer co - operation .
" given its unique tripartite structure comprising representatives of the business sector and the academia , and policy makers , the pecc is well placed to provide inputs to the asia - pacific economic co - operation (apec) in the latter 's pursuit of trade and investment liberalisation and facilitation , as well as economic and technical co - operation .
" closer links between these two asia - pacific regional fora has been forged , resulting in many joint initiatives or complementary activities . "
members of the " hong kong , china " delegation participated actively in the meeting . mr william fung moderated a ministerial panel on " overview of latin america " , and professor ho lok - sang of lingnan college and professor richard wong of the university of hong kong were speakers at different plenary sessions .
the chairman of the hong kong trade development council (hktdc) , dr victor fung ; and the managing director of hopewell holdings limited , sir gordon wu , were also invited as speakers at two other plenary sessions .
a panel session on " hong kong : three months after reunification " was specially organised as one of the plenary sessions on the last day of the meeting ( $date ) . panellists included deputy secretary for trade and industry and vice - chairman of the hkcpec , mr tam wing pong ; visiting professor of business administration , university of hong kong , professor michael j enright ; the chairman and chief executive officer of gold peak industries ( holdings ) limited , mr victor lo ; and chairman of the hktdc , dr victor fung .
in their presentations , the speakers highlighted the smooth transition and it was business as usual in hong kong .
they also underlined the continued important role of hong kong as a regional and international business and financial centre .
hong kong became a member of the pecc in $date .
currently , the pecc has a membership of $number member committees representing the economies of australia ; brunei darussalam ; canada ; chile ; china ; colombia ; hong kong , china ; indonesia ; japan ; south korea ; malaysia ; mexico ; new zealand ; peru ; the philippines ; russia ; singapore ; chinese taipei ; thailand ; the united states ; the pacific island nations and vietnam .
sha visits sha tin and sai kung the secretary for home affairs , mr david lan , today ( friday ) visited sha tin and sai kung to see for himself the latest developments in the districts .
mr lan $number arrived at the rooftop of kam shun house in kam ying court , sha tin , where he was briefed on the development blueprint of pak shek area and the ma on shan rail project .
he then proceeded to the ma on shan sub - office to familiarise himself with its day - to - day operations .
before leaving for sai kung , mr lan met sha tin provisional district board members and community leaders at a reception .
while meeting with members of the sai kung rural committee , mr lan learned of the metamorphosis of sai kung old town centre from an old village into a modern new town .
before concluding his visit , mr lan took in a panoramic view of tseung kwan o from hong sing garden , tseung kwan o. accompanying him were the director of home affairs , mrs shelley lau ; sha tin district officer , ms m l wong and sai kung district officer , mr simon yau .
bacteria found in ice - cream bar the department of health (dh) today ( friday ) advised the public not to consume a certain batch of dreyer 's ice cream bar as a kind of bacteria , listeria monocytogenes , was detected in that batch of ice cream bar during the department 's routine food surveillance programme .
the batch in question is " dreyer 's " cookies ' n cream ice cream bar ( $number ml ) ( batch no. $number ) ( expiry date : $number $number ) from usa .
the bacteria so far have not been found in other dreyer 's items .
a spokesman for dh said : " listeria monocytogenes is a bacteria that can be transmitted through ingestion of raw and contaminated food such as milk , cheese , vegetables and ready - to - eat meat . "
in others , particularly the young , the old and pregnant women , it may present with fever , nausea , vomiting and diarrhoea .
in more severe cases , it can cause infection of the brain and meningitis . the disease can also cause abortions in pregnant women . "
the spokesman said the bacteria were detected in ice cream bars collected from a supermarket for routine bacteriological examination .
the importing agent of the said product had been informed of the result . it had agreed to stop the sale of this batch of ice cream bar immediately and to arrange for the collection of the stock from all stores .
local retailers are also advised to check their stock and withhold the sale of this batch of ice cream bar pending collection by the importing agent .
appointments to the ticf management board the sar government announced in today 's ( friday ) gazette appointments to the travel industry compensation fund (ticf) management board .
dr james kung ziang - mien has been re - appointed as chairman of the management board for a period of two years from $date .
six existing non - official members have been re - appointed for the same period . they are mrs pamela chan , mr colin chau , mr frank chen , mr simon hau suk - kei , mr anthony hung and mr patrick yeung .
two new members have been appointed , also for the same period . they are mr joseph tung yao - chung and mr steven lau hon - keung .
" the chairman and members of the management board , with expertise drawn from the banking , consumer interest , accounting , travelling , legal and insurance fields , will continue to contribute significantly to the management of the travel industry compensation fund , " a government spokesman said .
the travel industry compensation fund management board was established on $date under the travel agents ordinance . its function is to hold , manage and apply the fund in accordance with provisions in the ordinance .
licence approved for satellite earth station the executive council has approved the grant of a licence , under the telecommunication ordinance , to apt satellite company limited , a company registered in hong kong , for the establishment of a satellite earth station in hong kong to control and monitor its new satellite .
apt will launch its satellite , apstar - iir , in $date .
china great wall industry corporation has been contracted by apt to launch the satellite from xichang .
the new satellite will form part of the company 's satellite communication network in the asia - pacific region to provide telecommunications and broadcasting transmission services to the region .
the licence approved by the council is to enable the company to establish an earth station at the tai po industrial estate for the control and monitoring of the satellite .
apstar - iir will be $number satellite operated by a hong kong company after asiasat $number ( launched in $date ) , apstar - i ( launched in $date ) , asiasat $number ( launched in $date ) and apstar - ia ( launched in $date ) .
hong kong medical council examination results announced the following is issued on behalf of the licentiate committee of the medical council of hong kong : the licentiate committee of the medical council of hong kong announced today ( friday ) that $number and $number candidates have passed the examination in professional knowledge and the proficiency test in medical english of the licensing examination respectively .
the examination in professional knowledge , held on $date , $number , is a multiple choice question paper aiming at testing candidates ' professional knowledge in basic medical sciences , medical ethics / community medicine , medicine , surgery , orthopaedic surgery , obstetrics & gynaecology and paediatrics .
candidates are required to sit on both days to answer two sets of multiple choice question paper comprising $number multiple choice questions .
a total of $number candidates applied to sit the examination and $number turned up .
the proficiency test in medical english , held on $date , aimed at testing candidates ' use of medical english in the professional context .
a total of $number candidates applied to sit the test and $number turned up .
candidates who are successful in these two parts of the licensing examination are eligible for sitting the clinical examination to be held in late $date / early $date .
list of tariff adjustments of china for public inspection the trade department has issued a commercial information circular informing traders that a consolidated list of the newly - adjusted import and export tariff rates of mainland china effective from $date is now available for public inspection .
the most important adjustment made is the reduction of import tariff rates for $number of the total $number customs commodity headings , the average rate of which have been reduced from $number per cent to $number per cent , a reduction of $number per cent .
traders are welcome to inspect the consolidated list at the asia ( commercial relations ) section of the trade department on $number floor , trade department tower , $number nathan road , kowloon during office hours as follows : monday to friday : $number am to $number pm $number pm to $number pm saturday : $number am to $number noon end
construction output for $number quarter of $number the gross value of construction work , in nominal terms , performed by main contractors amounted to $ $number in $number quarter of $number , according to the preliminary results of the quarterly survey of construction output released today ( friday ) by the census and statistics department . this represented an increase of $number over the same quarter last year .
based on the provisional estimate , the gross value of construction work , measured at constant ( $number ) market prices , performed in $number quarter of $number increased by $number over the same quarter last year .
the gross value of construction work , in nominal terms , performed at private sector sites totalled $ $number , representing a notable increase of $number over the same quarter last year .
when measured at constant ( $number ) market prices , it was up by $number .
the gross value of construction work , in nominal terms , performed at public sector sites amounted to $ $number , representing a slight decrease of $number over the same quarter last year .
when measured at constant ( $number ) market prices , it was down by $number .
the gross value of construction work , in nominal terms , performed by contractors at locations other than construction sites amounted to $ $number , $number higher than in $number quarter of $number .
when measured at constant ( $number ) market prices , it increased by $number .
work in this category included minor new construction activities and renovation work at erected buildings and structures ; and electrical and mechanical fitting work .
analysed by end - use , residential building projects ( including commercial and residential composite buildings ) accounted for the largest portion of the gross value of construction work performed at construction sites . the gross value of construction work performed for these projects was $ $number , representing a notable increase of $number over $number quarter of $number .
transport projects , which included the new airport and related infrastructural projects , represented $number largest category of construction site work . the gross value of construction work performed for these projects was $ $number , $number lower than in $number quarter of $number .
the gross value of construction work performed for these projects totalled $ $number , representing a remarkable increase of $number over $number quarter of $number .
compared with $number quarter of $number , the gross value of construction work , in nominal terms , performed by main contractors in $number quarter of $number increased by $number .
the gross values of construction work at constant ( $number ) market prices are derived by deflating the nominal values with appropriate price indices to the price level of $number .
owing to the widespread sub - contracting practices in the construction industry , a construction establishment can be a main contractor for one contract and a sub - contractor for another contract at the same time .
the gross value of construction work performed by main contractors covers only those projects in which the construction establishment takes the role of a main contractor , but not projects in which it takes only the role of a sub - contractor .
however , sub - contractors ' contribution to projects should have been included in the gross value of construction work performed by main contractors for whom they worked . more detailed statistics on construction output are given in the " report on the quarterly survey of construction output , $number quarter $number " . the report is now on sale at $ $number per copy at the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , or at the census and statistics department publications unit , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries about the survey results may be directed to the building , construction and real estate statistics section of the census and statistics department on $number $number .
children dance troupe performance ' $number the central and western district children dance troupe will give two performances of traditional chinese dance routine over the weekend in their yearly presentation by its students aged from three to $number years old .
$number show will take place from $number pm to $number pm tomorrow ( saturday ) and $number from $number pm to $number pm on sunday ( $date ) at the theatre of sheung wan civic centre , $number queen 's road central .
tickets at $ $number each are available at the urbtix counters .
the central and western district children dance troupe performance ' $number is organised by the central and western district association for culture and arts and co - organised by the central and western provisional district board and central and western district office with a view to promoting traditional oriental children 's dance .
the event is jointly sponsored by the provisional urban council , lions club of bayview hong kong and association of the central and western district .
the central and western district children dance troupe was established $date as one of the sub - groups of central and western district association for culture and arts to teach youngsters traditional chinese dance .
more than $number of its students have since achieved outstanding results in various dance competitions .
enquiries on its activities can be made by phone at $number $number and $number $number .
applications to five civil service grades close on $date applicants who are interested to join five civil service grades are urged to submit applications before next thursday ( $date ) .
these grades are administrative officer , executive officer ii , assistant labour officer ii , assistant trade officer ii and management services officer ii .
applications are open to permanent residents of the hong kong special administrative region who possess the required degree from a university in hong kong ( or equivalent qualifications ) or who are undergraduates taking their final degree examinations in summer $number .
applicants are reminded to refer to the recruitment advertisement posted on $date for the entry qualification requirements of each grade and the application procedures .
application forms ( g. f.606 and g. f.606a ) ( rev $number ) are available at the district offices of home affairs department , local employment services of labour department and student affairs offices of local universities .
applicants applying for more than one grade are required to fill in only one application form . applicants can also make on - line applications through the internet at the civil service bureau homepage ( http://www.hku.hk/hkgcsb ) . alternatively , they can also download the necessary application forms from the same site .
to streamline the examination and to enhance efficiency and effectiveness in the utilization of resources , the structure of the common recruitment examination this year will be revised - the examination will be conducted in two parts in two stages .
details of examination arrangements are set out in the application forms .
man - made reefs in marine parks for fisheries study the government will deploy artificial reefs in the marine parks at yan chau tong and hoi ha wan in north district and tai po respectively to provide a habitat for the enhancement of marine resources .
the agricultural and fisheries department will closely monitor the colonisation process of the artificial reefs by fish and other marine life .
the works will cover an area of $number square metres of foreshore and sea - bed at the yan chau tong marine park , and $number square metres at the hoi ha wan marine park .
to avoid causing disruption to navigation , the reefs will rise from the sea - bed to no more than five metres from the sea surface along shipping routes .
works in both areas will begin in $date for completion in $date .
roads for maintenance of drainage in yuen long the territory development department will build roads along a proposed drainage channel in kam tin , yuen long , to facilitate maintenance works .
the road works will be carried out in connection with the proposed drainage improvement project for the kam tin river from shek wu tong to the south of tai hong tsuen .
it will also include the construction of footpaths , footbridges and vehicular bridges in kam tin south to improve the traffic network in the area .
during the construction , some existing tracks and bridges will be closed but alternative access will be maintained and temporary diversion provided .
the works are due to begin in $date for completion in $date .
flushing water cut in central , sheung wan and sai ying pun flushing water supply to some premises in central , sheung wan and sai ying pun will be suspended from $number pm on monday ( $date ) to $number am the following day for alteration work on watermains .
the suspension will affect all premises in the area bounded by garden road , eastern street , upper albert road , caine road , bonham road , queen 's road central and queen 's road west .
transcript of fs 's media session the following is a transcript of a media session by the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , at the press room , central government offices this ( saturday ) morning after meeting a group of provisional legislative councillors as part of the consultation on the revenue proposals of the $number budget : financial secretary : i have already started $number phase of my consultation with provisional legislative councillors .
members ' views were then reflected to various bureaux and departments of the government , and then consolidated recommendations were made to the chief executive . the chief executive has already considered these recommendations , and he will certainly announce his own decisions on spending priorities at his coming policy address .
what i am doing now is to consult provisional legislative councillors on the revenue side , the taxation part of the budget .
i started the consultation yesterday , and i saw two groups of provisional legislative councillors . this morning i saw $number group . i 'll be seeing more groups next week .
i am hoping to complete the consultation with the provisional legislative councillors by about $number of this month , and i hope that by the end of the month , i have most of the views and these views will help me and my colleagues in formulating our own recommendation for the coming year budgets .
but of course as you know proposals or decisions on taxation are very serious matters , they are not matters for speculation , so i was rather surprised when i read from newspapers today that i already have some firm decision on profits tax and i have decided to raise profits tax or cut profits tax .
i think this is , i can 't recall that there had been such conversation yesterday , and those reports were certainly inaccurate .
at this stage my focus is to hear members views and hopefully they will help me in formulating the recommendations .
on $number of this month after i have seen all groups of the provisional legislature , i would certainly make myself available to meet you again and make an account on what has happened .
that would then help me , i hope , by that time i have the cross section of views expressed to me on taxation for the coming year .
the police will always exercise maximum restraint and use minimum force only when absolutely necessary , an sar government spokesman stressed today ( saturday ) .
he was speaking in response to press enquiries in connection with the concern expressed by representatives of the democratic party and the frontier at their meeting with the secretary for security , mr peter lai , this morning on police handling of recent demonstrations outside the venue of the world bank / international monetary fund (imf) meetings .
" peaceful demonstrations have remained pretty much a way of life after $date and hong kong people 's freedom of expression and assembly have not been curtailed in any way , " the spokesman said .
he noted that some $number demonstrations had been held since the handover and that the majority of public processions and meetings were held lawfully and peacefully .
" hong kong is a free and open society where freedom of expression and assembly are guaranteed by law , but the community would expect people to express their rights in an orderly , peaceful and lawful manner , " he said .
he explained that it was necessary to regulate public processions and meetings because the police had statutory duties under the police force ordinance and the public order ordinance to preserve public safety and order .
" if demonstrators are dissatisfied with any decision of the commissioner of police , they can always lodge an appeal with the independent appeal board on public meetings and processions , " he pointed out .
" in the case of the world bank / imf conference , the police have an additional duty to protect the participants in accordance with the internationally protected persons and taking of hostages ordinance .
we need to fulfil our international obligation , " he went on .
" decisions as to what appropriate action to take in regulating public processions are best made on the ground by the police officer in charge of the operation having regard to the circumstances of each case , " he said .
on allegations that the police had used excessive force in regulating the demonstrators , the spokesman emphasised that police officers were trained and instructed to use maximum restraint and minimum force in all circumstances .
" physical confrontation may sometimes be unavoidable when demonstrators tried to rush through police cordon as was the case on $date , " he said .
the spokesman added that the setting up of designated demonstration areas (dda) was a reasonable measure for the police to fulfil their duty of maintaining public order and safety and protecting participants of the conference while facilitating the public to express their views .
" the dda was set near the entrance to the meeting venue at a reasonable distance , " he maintained .
response to newspaper report commenting on an editorial and a report in the south china morning post today ( saturday ) headlined " fury as legal chiefs 'defy ' court over boat people " , a spokesman for the department of justice pointed out that the administration had acted fairly and strictly in accordance with the direction of the court and in the public interest .
the seven applicants who were ordered to be released by the court on $date were released with their family members on that day .
he noted that the judge ( keith j. ) had said towards the end of the judgment : " accordingly , for the reasons i have given , i declare that the continued detention of the seven applicants is unlawful , and i have ordered their immediate release from detention .
as for the remaining $number applicants , the parties will need time to consider the impact of this judgment on their cases , and i leave it to the parties to decide whether and when their cases should be brought to the court 's attention again . "
( at page $number ) . the judgment was only handed down on $date and the administration has been actively considering the impact of the judgment on the remaining $number applicants .
while giving consideration to the judgment , the administration has agreed with the lawyers for the remaining applicants to restore the matter before mr justice keith on thursday $date .
this is in line with mr justice keith 's observations quoted .
the court will consider the position of the remaining $number applicants on that day .
the administration has decided to appeal mr justice keith 's decision in the case of the seven applicants released on $date , and this will be pursued with expedition .
distribution of progress report the chief secretary for administration , mrs anson chan , will launch the progress report on monday ( $date ) afternoon .
the report details achievements of outstanding undertakings made by the government .
copies of the progress report are available to the public after $number pm from the district offices , the government publications centre and the marketing office .
the government publications centre is located at the ground floor of the queensway government offices , low block , $number queensway , hong kong . the marketing office is on the $number floor , siu on centre , $number lockhart road , wan chai , hong kong .
the progress report will also be available on the government home page on the internet at http://www.info.gov.hk .
appointments to the consumer council announced a government spokesman announced today ( friday ) that the chief executive of the hong kong special administrative region has appointed ms anna wu , jp , as the chairman of the consumer council for two years as from $date .
dr john ho dit - sang has been appointed by the financial secretary as the vice - chairman for the same period .
ms anna wu joined the consumer council $date and became its vice - chairman $date . she is very active in the council 's affairs and leads , among others , the legal protection committee and the consumer legal action fund management committee . she is also the vice - chairman of the competition policy committee .
dr john ho joined the council $date . he has been involved in various committees and working groups and is now the vice - chairman of the council 's trade practices committee .
" we are confident that ms wu and dr ho will provide the necessary leadership for the council in continuing to promote consumer interests in hong kong , " the spokesman said .
to fill the vacancy arising , the financial secretary has appointed mr andrew liao cheung - sing jp , as a member of the council $date .
mr liao is a senior counsel .
ms wu will be succeeding professor edward chen kwan - yiu , jp , who will be retiring from the consumer council after having served on it for $number years , including six years as chairman .
" we are most grateful to professor chen for his distinguished contribution to the consumer council over the years .
his dedication , leadership and wisdom have inspired the council to excel in the cause of advancing consumer interests , " the spokesman added .
the appointment notice will appear on the government gazette on thursday ( $date ) .
views invited on compulsory building inspection scheme members of the public are urged to give comments before the end of this month on a proposal to enforce the building safety inspection scheme on a mandatory basis for private buildings $number years old .
a spokesman for the buildings department said today ( sunday ) that the two - month public consultation exercise would end on $date .
the scheme will impose a legal responsibility on building owners to have their properties regularly inspected , maintained and repaired to ensure safety of occupants and the public .
" we are glad that the response so far received indicated support in principle for the proposed scheme .
" in addition , valuable comments have also been received on matters of detail covering technical standards , procedures , financing and other practical problems required to be resolved , " the spokesman said .
he stressed that proper maintenance of buildings was not only in the interest of public safety but also could enhance their value , to the benefit of owners .
under the proposed scheme , the building authority will issue statutory orders requiring building owners to appoint authorised persons or structural engineers to inspect their properties .
there will be two levels of inspection , namely general appraisal and detailed investigation .
" detailed investigation and repair works will be necessary only if recommended by building professionals after the general appraisal , and supported by the buildings department , " the spokesman said .
copies of the consultation document are available at all district offices .
comments should be sent to the buildings department at $number floor , pioneer centre , $number nathan road , mong kok .
appeals against social security benefits up the social security appeal board received $number appeals against social security benefits in the year $number , an increase of $number per cent as compared with $number appeals in the preceding year .
the $number appeals comprised $number comprehensive social security assistance (cssa) cases , $number social security allowance (ssa) cases and one traffic accident victims assistance (tava) case .
" compared with the previous year , there was a marked increase of $number appeals ( $number per cent ) in ssa cases and a decrease of $number appeals ( $number per cent ) in cssa cases , " a social welfare department (swd) spokesman said .
during $number , the board heard a total of $number appeals consisting of $number received in the year and $number from the previous year .
of the $number appeals heard , the board confirmed the department 's decisions in $number cases and varied its decisions in $number cases .
the spokesman pointed out that among the $number cases with decision in favour of the appellants , $number lodged their appeals against medical decision .
" any person who are not satisfied with the decision of the swd in respect of eligibility and payment of social security benefits can appeal in writing to the board , which is an independent body , " he said .
an appeal could be lodged at the office of the appeal board , the swd headquarters or any of its $number social security field units , or the traffic accident victims assistance section , the spokesman added .
cs launches $number progress report the government scored a $number per cent success rate in implementing $number service pledges .
announcing this during the launch of the $number progress report , the chief secretary for administration , mrs anson chan said : " i am very pleased to present $number progress report of the new administration giving an account of how we have performed in the delivery of a range of community services .
it demonstrates the continuity of an effective administration despite the transfer of sovereignty which took place a few months ago , and underlines the commitment of the administration to remain open , transparent and accountable to the public . "
" this has been a challenging year for us .
our achievements covered a whole host of policy initiatives and service pledges .
i am glad to report that nine out of $number bureaux met all their targets on schedule .
this is not an easy task , particularly against the background of an increase in pledges from $number $date to $number $date .
" it is evident that the civil service has kept up with its quality service , " mrs chan said .
accounting for the $number failed pledges , the chief secretary for administration said the reasons were varied . they include difficulties in locating premises for different purposes , longer time than expected to draft and process legislation and delays due to construction works , etc.
" individual bureaux and departments which have outstanding commitments will continue with their efforts to catch up in the remainder of the year .
we will continue to report to the community in detail on progress made on such items . this will enable the community to judge for themselves how well we are performing .
" moreover , in two days ' time , all bureaux will be publishing their policy programmes for next year in support of the chief executive 's $number policy address , " mrs chan said .
ce to present $number policy address the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , will present his $number policy address on $date ( wednesday ) .
he will begin his address at $number pm .
the proceedings will be broadcast live on five television channels , as well as radio television hong kong (rthk) channels $number , $number and $number , commercial radio ( cr ) - am864 and metro plus .
rthk will also broadcast live both the video and audio version of the policy address on the internet at http://www.rthk.org.hk .
the full text will be available on the internet at http://www.info.gov.hk .
mr tung will give a press conference immediately after the delivery .
the proceedings will be broadcast live on tvb , wharf cable ( news $number ) and rthk-1 , $number and $number .
the radio and tv stations will carry a five - minute message by the chief executive on his $number policy address the same evening . the message will be broadcast by tvb - jade at $number pm , tvb - pearl at $number pm , atv - home at $number pm , atv - world at $number pm , wharf cable ( news $number ) at $number pm , cr-1 at $number pm , cr-2 at $number pm and cr - am864 at $number pm , metro at $number pm and rthk-1 , $number , $number right after the delivery .
mr tung will take part in a live panel discussion between $number pm and $number pm which will be broadcast by rthk-1 and $number , tvb - jade , atv - home and wharf cable ( news $number ) .
rthk will also broadcast live the programme via the internet .
copies of the chief executive 's speech in english and chinese will be available to members of the public from $number pm that day at all district offices , the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway and the marketing office of the information services department on the $number floor , siu on centre , $number lockhart road , wan chai .
a policy address leaflet will also be available from $number pm at eight mass transit railway stations , three kowloon - canton railway corporation stations , district offices , housing authority shopping centres , the government publications centre and the marketing office of the information services department .
on thursday ( $date ) , the chief executive will take questions from callers phoning in rthk $number and $number 's " talkabout " , rthk $number 's " hong kong today " programmes and rthk-7 from $number am .
phone - in numbers are $number $number for the chinese language and $number $number for the english .
rthk will also broadcast live the production on radio $number ( cantonese ) and radio $number ( english ) on the net .
mr tung will address a luncheon organised by the hong kong general chamber of commerce and co - organised by a number of chambers of commerce and business associations for the business community . rthk-3 will broadcast live the proceedings .
in the afternoon , he will brief the provisional legislative council on the policy address and answer questions from members . the proceedings will be broadcast live by atv , wharf cable and rthk-1 , $number and $number .
post office 's response to ombudsman 's report commenting on the ombudsman 's " investigation report on issue and sale of special stamps and philatelic products " , the postmaster general , mr robert footman , said today ( monday ) : " we agree with the ombudsman 's conclusion which recognises the unprecedented demand for hong kong stamps that we have had to meet $date , our role in maintaining and protecting the long - term viability of the philatelic market , and our efforts to safeguard the interests of all our customers .
we are particularly pleased with the ombudsman 's acknowledgement of the considerable improvements we have made in enhancing the efficiency and fairness of our arrangements .
we are pledged to continue to do all we can to further improve our services to meet changing customers ' needs and expectations .
in fact , we have productively implemented most of the recommendations made by the ombudsman .
these include : * improvements to the local standing order service ( due to be relaunched later this month for customers to place their orders for $number ) ; * resort to balloting for sale of some philatelic products which are supplied in very limited quantities ( e.g. $number annual stamp pack and $number prestige annual stamp album ; * cessation of off - counter sales arrangements to post office staff and special clients ; and * adjustment of the commission rate for the re - purchase of unused stamps to deter against speculative activities .
the other recommendations for improvement would require further exploration of the feasibilities in the next few months in the light of further experience as the demand for our stamps stabilises .
in addition , the post office review committee on stamp issuing arrangements , which comprises post office senior management staff and representatives from the independent commission against corruption , will be turned into a standing committee . it will meet once every year , or more often as necessary , to review stamp issuing arrangements .
looking ahead , we are committed to listening to customers ' feedback and to implementing further improvements . "
new members join law reform commission the chairman of the law reform commission , the secretary for justice , miss elsie leung , today ( monday ) announced that the chief justice , the hon mr andrew li , and mr justice henry litton , a member of the court of final appeal , had joined the commission as members .
miss leung welcomed the new appointments and said that she looked forward to working with them on the commission .
with these latest membership changes , the law reform commission now consists of $number members .
they are : mr eric cheung ; professor yash ghai ; dr lawrence lai ; mr andrew liao , sc ; professor felice lieh mak ; mr justice litton ; mr gage mcafee ; mr alasdair morrison ; professor peter wesley - smith ; mr justein wong and mr roderick woo .
the secretary for justice , the chief justice and the law draftsman are ex officio members .
us - hk agreed minute on strategic commodities trade today ( monday ) us commerce department secretary , mr william daley , and hong kong special administrative region secretary for trade and industry , miss denise yue , agreed to closer co - operation on strategic commodities trade controls .
the written summary of their discussions held this morning in hong kong : * reaffirms the us supportive policy with hong kong on trade in strategic commodities , which gives hong kong broad access to us goods and technologies ; * provides for regular meetings on strategic commodities trade controls ; * calls for broadened sharing of information on these controls and related enforcement matters ; * provides that the us government will facilitate the sharing with hong kong of information on non - proliferation regimes ; * states hong kong 's intention to comply with prevailing non - proliferation regimes and implement all appropriate regime changes .
mr daley said : " i am pleased with hong kong 's efforts in maintaining effective controls and continued co - operation on trade in strategic commodities .
this minute of discussions underscores hong kong 's commitment to maintain the integrity of its controls . it supports our policy of continuing to give hong kong broad access to us goods and technology . "
welcoming the us continued supportive policy towards hong kong over trade in strategic commodities , miss yue said : " it is in hong kong 's own economic and commercial interest to maintain effective controls over trade in strategic commodities .
only by doing so can we ensure our free access to sophisticated goods and technologies which are essential for hong kong 's economic development .
we are committed to practising the highest standards of controls and enforce our laws fully .
we look forward to receiving continued support from our trading partners . "
land registry statistics for $date released the land registry last month ( $date ) received $number sale and purchase agreements for building units , including residential and non - residential properties . the figure represented a decrease of $number from the previous month but an increase of $number per cent over $date last year .
the total considerations of these agreements were $ $number , down $number per cent from last $date but up $number per cent over $date last year . the figures were contained in the monthly statistics released today ( monday ) by the land registry on deeds relating to property transactions received for registration in the urban and new territories land registries in $date .
relevant statistics for $date and $date were provided for comparison . figures on sale and purchase agreements received for the past $number months and the year - on - year rate of change were also released .
there is usually a time lag between the execution of deeds and their lodgement for registration . the figures mentioned above reflect only the number of deeds lodged for registration in $date .
tender for the $number issue of $number - year exchange fund notes the hong kong monetary authority announced today ( monday ) that the tender for the $number issue of $number - year exchange fund notes will be held on monday , $date for settlement on tuesday , $date .
similar to the previous issue , an amount of hk $ $number $number - year notes will be on offer .
in addition to that , another hk $ $number will be held as reserve by the hong kong monetary authority for supply to market makers in the secondary market .
the notes will mature on $date and will carry interest at the rate of $number per annum payable semi - annually in arrears .
members of the public who wish to tender for the notes may do so through any of the market makers or recognised dealers on the published list which can be obtained from the hong kong monetary authority , $number floor , $number garden road , hong kong ( or telephone $number $number ) .
each tender must be for an amount of hk $ $number or integral multiples thereof .
hong kong monetary authority exchange fund note programme tender information tender information for the $number issue of $number - year exchange fund notes : issue number : $number tender date and time : monday , $date $number am to $number am issue and settlement date : tuesday , $date amount on offer : hk $ $number plus an additional hk $ $number as reserve stock for the monetary authority maturity : three years maturity date : $date interest rate : $number per annum payable semi - annually in arrears interest payment dates : $date , $date , $date , $date , $date , $date tender amount : each tender must be for an amount of hk $ $number or integral multiples thereof .
members of the public who wish to tender for the notes may approach market makers or recognised dealers on the published list other details : please see information memorandum published or approach market makers or recognised dealers end
education commission report no. $number released the chairman of the education commission (ec) , professor rosie young announced today ( tuesday ) the publication of the education commission report no. $number ( ecr7 ) on quality school education .
speaking at a press conference on the release of ecr7 , professor young said that ec has fully considered the public views collected during the consultation $date in finalising its recommendations in ecr7 .
professor young said : " ecr7 focuses on ways to improve school management and performance towards the provision of quality school education to better meet the needs of students .
" educational aims should be translated into quality indicators , to be developed by schools with assistance from the education department , to measure the performance of schools and students in all major domains of education .
" to effectively enhance the quality of school education , a quality assurance mechanism should be put in place .
we welcome the education department 's plan to adopt a 'whole - school ' approach to quality assurance inspection , and recommend that quality assurance within schools should be achieved through school - based management , self - evaluation , and co - operation between schools and parents .
" all schools should practise school - based management by the year $number , and be allowed to enjoy management and funding flexibility in the use of resources , under a clear accountability system .
" to map out the way forward for a comprehensive quality assurance mechanism , we recommend the education and manpower bureau to further examine the issue , with reference to overseas experience .
" incentives should be provided to encourage schools to strive for excellence , and the community to participate in the development of quality education .
in this aspect , we recommend the government should devote substantial resources to the setting up of a quality education development fund to encourage innovative projects and quality initiatives from schools , educational bodies and the community .
" devoted and quality front - line educators are essential to the delivery of quality school education .
we urge the government to provide better administrative and clerical support to the teaching staff .
all schools should be required to put in place a fair and open staff appraisal system for principals and teachers .
meanwhile , a preparatory committee has also been set up under ec to work out the detailed arrangements for the establishment of the general teaching council .
" i urge the government to accept the recommendations of ecr7 and set aside adequate resources for implementation . "
government supports the final recommendations of ecr7 the secretary for education and manpower , mr joseph w p wong , today ( tuesday ) welcomed the publication of the education commission report no. $number ( ecr7 ) on quality school education .
expressing gratitude toward the commission for drawing up wide - ranging recommendations after a thorough study of the issue in the past four years , mr wong said the government supported the main thrust of the reports , which is to devolve more authority and responsibility to schools and promote bottom - up initiatives for the school sector .
" the government will announce its decisions on the subject as soon as possible , " mr wong said .
proposals for quality school education welcomed on the release of education commission report no.7 , the director of education , mrs helen c p lai yu , said today ( tuesday ) : " in recent years , we have endeavoured to enhance the quality of school education .
we are particularly pleased to note the recommendations for devolution of greater authority and accountability to schools and streamlining of procedures , more flexible use of resources , the adoption of the spirit of school - based management and the emphasis on whole - school approach to inspection .
we are encouraged as these reinforce our objectives .
we look forward to government 's announcement on the report . we pledge our total efforts to working with our colleagues in the education sector , to further improve our services and to promote a quality culture for school education . "
ce to present $number policy address & hold press conference the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , will present his $number policy address tomorrow ( wednesday ) .
he will begin his address at $number pm .
the proceedings will be broadcast live on five television channels , as well as radio television hong kong (rthk) channels $number , $number and $number , commercial radio ( cr ) - am864 and metro plus .
rthk will also broadcast live both the video and audio version of the policy address on the internet at http://www.rthk.org.hk .
the full text will be available on the internet at http://www.info.gov.hk .
mr tung will give a press conference immediately after the delivery .
the proceedings will be broadcast live on tvb , wharf cable ( news $number ) and rthk-1 , $number , $number and putonghua channel .
the radio and tv stations will carry a five - minute message by the chief executive on his $number policy address the same evening . the message will be broadcast by tvb - jade at $number pm , tvb - pearl at $number pm , atv - home at $number pm , atv - world at $number pm , wharf cable ( news $number ) at $number pm , cr-1 at $number pm , cr-2 at $number pm and cr - am864 at $number pm , metro at $number pm and rthk-1 , $number , $number right after the delivery .
mr tung will take part in a live panel discussion between $number pm and $number pm which will be broadcast by rthk-1 , $number and putonghua channel , tvb - jade , atv - home and wharf cable ( news $number ) .
rthk will also broadcast live the programme via the internet .
copies of the chief executive 's speech in english and chinese will be available to members of the public from $number pm that day at all district offices , the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway and the marketing office of the information services department on the $number floor , siu on centre , $number lockhart road , wan chai .
a policy address leaflet will also be available from $number pm at eight mass transit railway stations , three kowloon - canton railway corporation stations , district offices , housing authority shopping centres , the government publications centre and the marketing office of the information services department .
on thursday ( $date ) , the chief executive will take questions from callers phoning in rthk $number and $number 's " talkabout " , rthk $number 's " hong kong today " programmes and rthk putonghua channel from $number am .
phone - in numbers are $number $number for the chinese language and $number $number for the english .
rthk will also broadcast live the production on radio $number ( cantonese ) and radio $number ( english ) on the net .
mr tung will address a luncheon organised by the hong kong general chamber of commerce and co - organised by a number of chambers of commerce and business associations for the business community . rthk-3 will broadcast live the proceedings .
in the afternoon , he will brief the provisional legislative council on the policy address and answer questions from members . the proceedings will be broadcast live by atv , wharf cable and rthk-1 , $number and $number .
distribution of policy address publications the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , will present his $number policy address to the provisional legislative council tomorrow ( wednesday ) and copies of a leaflet containing the main points of his address will be widely available to the public immediately afterwards .
from $number pm , the leaflet will be available for collection from mass transit railway stations , kowloon - canton railway stations , district offices , housing authority shopping centres , the government publications centre and the marketing office .
the mtr stations at which the leaflet will be given out in the concourse and / or at main entrances and exits are central , wan chai , causeway bay , tai koo , tsim sha tsui , mong kok , wong tai sin , kwun tong and tsuen wan .
the kcr stations are hung hom , kowloon tong and sha tin .
the government publications centre is located at the ground floor of the queensway government offices , low block , $number queensway , hong kong .
the marketing office is on the $number floor , siu on centre , $number lockhart road , wan chai , hong kong .
other publications associated with the policy address will also be available for collection at the government publications centre and the marketing office from tomorrow . they include the policy address itself , the government policy programme and the progress report published yesterday .
top judges visit csd institutions the chief justice of the court of final appeal , mr justice andrew li , and the chief judge of the high court , mr justice patrick chan , today ( tuesday ) toured five institutions at the start of a series of visits to correctional services department penal institutions .
accompanied by the commissioner of correctional services , mr raymond lai ming - kee , the two top judges began their familiarisation programme with a visit to ma hang prison where they were briefed by superintendent lam man - fai on the management and operation of the minimum security prison .
the next stop was at hong kong 's top maximum security institution , stanley prison , where mr justice li and mr justice chan were taken on a tour of the prison by chief superintendent chan kong - sang . they visited a number of workshops where prisoners learn various skills in the making of a wide range of products such as garments , leather goods , silk screening for road signs and furniture .
at tung tau correctional institution , a medium security prison , the judges were briefed by superintendent choi tin - po on the current work to build an annex to the institution to provide additional accommodation for $number prisoners .
the superintendent of cape collinson correctional institution , chow tak - wah , briefed the judges on the department 's programme to help young offenders turn over a new leaf that includes various education and rehabilitation programmes .
the institution takes pride in training young inmates to participate in its marching band which enjoys a good reputation in public performances .
at the tai tam gap correctional institution for young female offenders , superintendent law wai - fung briefed the judges on the educational programmes for inmates , in particular , the training of young offenders to learn skills with which they could apply when released .
ce 's five minute summary of the policy address following is the full script of the chief executive 's five minute summary of the $number policy address to be broadcast on radio and television this ( wednesday ) evening : good evening , today i have delivered $number policy address of the hong kong special administrative region .
our goals have been formed after taking a long term view of the prospects for hong kong in this region and in the world .
we have looked at the increasingly competitive global economy , an economy which is being transformed by information technology , and at the momentous changes that continue to take place in china .
by building on our strengths , and by contributing to our country 's progress , we can draw benefit for ourselves .
by fostering a culture that embraces the new technology to add high value to all that we do , we can secure prosperity for the future .
with prosperity secured , we can continue to respond with care and compassion to the needs of our community .
my administration will work to preserve hong kong 's special characteristics - the rule of law ; open and accountable government ; prudent fiscal policies ; low and predictable taxes ; personal , social and economic freedoms , and a civil service that is efficient and honest .
we will also steadily develop democratic institutions of government .
all this is guaranteed in the basic law .
from the strength that these foundations give us ; with the strong financial position we are in ; with the support that we have from our country , and with the prospects we have for our economy , i am confident at being able to achieve practical goals to benefit the community .
i have set out a wide ranging programme in my address , but want to focus on four issues here .
$number of these is housing .
we will build $number flats a year from $number , and will be able to sustain that progress consistently for many years to come .
we will start selling $number public flats to their tenants on an affordable basis next year , $number step to selling $number flats within ten years .
$number of families will own their own home within $number years .
we will reduce the waiting time for public housing to no more than three years $date .
to support our housing programme , we will be investing heavily in railway development , to bring fast , high capacity , environmentally friendly transport to major population centres .
in the past we have invested heavily in tertiary education .
now we will devote attention to quality and excellence in basic education .
we will set up a $ $number quality education fund to give schools more flexibility to develop quality teaching .
we will strengthen language teaching ; greatly expand the use of information technology in schools ; and work to advance the professional standing of teaching .
we will be carrying out a comprehensive review of the education system , to ensure it will serve hong kong 's children well into the next century , and we will encourage learning about the history and culture of our country .
for the elderly , cssa payments will be increased by $ $number per month starting from next financial year .
we will also be improving health and welfare services to the elderly on a comprehensive basis across the territory .
business vitality is essential to achieving all that we hope for our community .
we will work to strengthen hong kong 's competitiveness and add value to our business .
we aim to secure hong kong as the leading financial centre for china and as a regional centre for innovation .
we will strive to improve the environment we live in , and to ensure that our city continues to attract and retain people of quality , vision and ability in the new era ahead .
hong kong has a bright future .
i ask each and every one of you , with the same sense of responsibility and commitment that you show to your own families , to join with me in building hong kong into a better home for all of us .
hong kong poised to 'ride wave of opportunity ' : ce hong kong is poised to ride a wave of opportunity as china 's economy , culture and spirit continues to progress , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( wednesday ) in his inaugural policy address .
mr tung said hong kong would 'rise to the challenge of this brave new era ' , adding new dimensions and vibrancy to the society .
mr tung said the reunification of hong kong with the mainland on $date meant that hong kong had begun to write its own history .
" clearly and constantly remembering the deep significance of $date , we must work to build hong kong for ourselves and for future generations : a hong kong that is civilised , prosperous , stable and democratic , filled with a new vitality , " mr tung said .
" our country has bright prospects from which hong kong is sure to benefit .
hong kong has finally broken free from the psychological constraints brought about by the colonial era .
" we should have the courage to set aside past modes of thought and plan hong kong 's long - term future with new vision . "
mr tung said the world economy had entered an era of increasingly open , free and borderless competition and that hong kong now faced the challenges of the information age .
he said hong kong must look to new concepts with which to assess competitiveness and set new courses for development .
the chief executive said hong kong was fortunate , and had incomparable advantages , such as a high degree of autonomy under the ' one country , two systems ' concept , abundant financial reserves , social and economic systems that worked well and a sound , comprehensive legal system .
in addition , hong kong is the southern gateway to china as well as an international financial , trade and shipping centre .
" our future economy will also be strongly supported by the rapid development in china , " he said .
high - level framework to bolster cross - boundary ties a high - level framework will be set up to strengthen regional co - operation between the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) and guangdong province , chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , announced today ( wednesday ) in his inaugural policy address .
in addition , the " hong kong and mainland major infrastructure projects co - ordinating committee " will be re - established to handle cross - boundary infrastructure projects .
the reactivated committee will conduct in - depth studies of specific projects , including the western corridor , the zhuhai lingdingyang bridge , the tonggu channel , air traffic control and the border crossings at lok ma chau and huanggang .
mr tung said the new high - level framework would enable co - operation between hong kong and guangdong " to rise to new heights " and would involve the hksar government , the guangdong provincial government and relevant central government departments .
major issues to be studied and co - ordinated will include infrastructure , environmental regulation , supply of non - staple foods , water supply , social welfare , business investment and speeding the flow of passengers , traffic and freight across the border .
mr tung said under the " one country , two systems " concept , hong kong 's prosperity and stability was closely linked to that of the mainland .
he said the mainland 's policy of reform and opening up had given new energy to hong kong 's economic development .
" hong kong and china share the same fundamental interests . this is the basis for successfully implementing ' one country , two systems ' , " mr tung said .
" it is also the starting point for the sar government when formulating policies for our relationship with the mainland , and strategies for hong kong 's long - term development . "
cs to head basic law education committee the chief secretary for administration will chair a new steering committee to plan education and promotion programmes on the basic law .
the new committee will also co - ordinate the efforts of all government bodies and all sectors of the community in such work .
the establishment of the committee was announced by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , in his inaugural policy address today ( wednesday ) .
mr tung said understanding the basic law was very important to the operation of hong kong 's society .
he said the basic law was the constitutional law of the hong kong sar and gave solemn and inviolable legal protection for the ' one country , two systems ' concept .
" we are the freest society and most vibrant economy of our time because hong kong has always practised free enterprise and free trade , insisted on prudent financial management policies and keeping a low taxation system , upheld the rule of law and placed emphasis on an efficient , executive - led government and a quality oriented civil service , " he said .
" all of these factors are safeguarded in the basic law . "
ce to chair commission on strategic development a commission on strategic development , to be chaired by the chief executive , will be set up to ensure hong kong 's continued competitiveness in the world market .
the commission will aim to ensure hong kong 's resources are well - used , that the special administrative region (sar) keeps up with world trends in competitive terms and to maintain the vitality of economic development .
the establishment of the commission was announced by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , during his inaugural policy address today ( wednesday ) .
mr tung said the commission would include government officials , members from the industrial , commercial , financial and grass - roots sectors as well as academics .
" it will be tasked to conduct reviews and studies on our economy , human resources , education , housing , land supply , environmental protection and relations with the mainland , " said mr tung .
the commission is part of mr tung 's plans to focus on adding value to the hong kong economy to maintain competitiveness in the world market .
mr tung said the relocation of industries to the mainland showed that low - wage manufacturing and services no longer fitted in with hong kong 's economic development .
he said it was impractical to maintain competitiveness by driving down incomes because " it would not protect our overall interests " .
" the invisible hand of market forces has already pointed out that the way forward is to develop high value - added industries and services , " said mr tung .
" only through business that adds high value can hong kong 's people enjoy higher incomes and better lives .
" only by that means can we solve the poverty problem of the lower income group once and for all . "
mr tung said an important factor in achieving this goal was to provide hong kong people with the quality education needed to master the skills required to participate in the new economy . another factor was to create a quality environment which would help retain qualified professionals and to attract talent from all over the world .
" it will take a long time to train all our citizens to equip them for careers in high value - added business , " said mr tung .
" for those citizens who have been displaced in the course of hong kong 's economic restructuring in recent years , it is incumbent on the sar government to help them .
" we must set the creation of new jobs as our main goal and continue to develop and provide employee retraining schemes to help our citizens find employment and adapt to new jobs . "
ce pledges a better business environment the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , wants to make hong kong even more business friendly by cutting red tape , reducing regulatory costs and reviewing the profits tax system .
mr tung outlined his plans for a " better business environment " during his inaugural policy address today ( wednesday ) .
" my administration will strive to improve the environment for business in hong kong so that everyone has the opportunity to prosper through their work and so contribute to the common prosperity , " said mr tung .
" we will do everything to remove obstacles and constraints to business development . we will give the private sector freedom to set its own direction , to explore and to seize opportunities . "
mr tung welcomed the continued presence of the " dynamic international business community " , stating he would continue to pay close attention to their requirements and " to all the factors that help make hong kong an attractive place for them " .
among mr tung 's pledges are : * a review of the profits tax system , with any changes to be announced by the financial secretary in the budget next year ; * critical scrutiny of the costs government imposes on business by the regulatory and licensing framework ; * to work closely with the private sector to cut red tape , reduce compliance costs and improve services ; and * to set aside $ $number to establish a pilot credit guarantee scheme to help small and medium enterprises seek loans from commercial banks to finance pre - shipment activities .
' strong prospects ' for financial services says ce hong kong 's financial services industries have very strong prospects for the future which will be enhanced by the next stage of financial and economic reform on the mainland , says the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa .
in his inaugural policy address today ( wednesday ) , mr tung said the contribution of the financial services industry to hong kong 's gdp had increased by $number per cent in the past decade .
" we are the world 's $number largest banking centre and $number largest securities market . we are one of asia 's leading insurance and fund management centres , " he said .
" we will work to improve hong kong 's position as a premier financial centre by maintaining a world - class supervisory regime without over regulation ; by providing state - of - the - art financial infrastructure and a well - trained , adaptable work force . "
the hong kong sar government would also maintain the rule of law , a low and predictable tax system , an open market and a level playing field .
mr tung outlined several initiatives which would help the development of hong kong 's financial services industries .
he said the hksar government will : * issue guidelines to the banking sector this year to ensure they maintain adequate capital against market risk ; * study the impact of electronic banking and its implications for supervisory policy ; * set up a secure intranet linking regulators and regulated institutions as a $number step towards straight through processing across the financial system ; * examine how to link the securities clearing system to the banking clearing system and explore the setting up of a single clearing corporation for stocks and futures ; * encourage the securities and futures commission and the two exchanges to set up an investor resources centre to improve investors ' knowledge of the market ; and * support the industry 's study into the need for , and feasibility of , setting up a financial services institute to co - ordinate training in the sector .
new initiatives for tourism , film industries the tourism and film industries will benefit from new initiatives announced today ( wednesday ) by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , in his inaugural policy address .
mr tung said a $ $number loan would be given to the hong kong tourist association to start an international events fund to help keep hong kong in the world 's eye .
the fund would bring together private sector partnerships to stage $number international events in hong kong over the next five years .
" we will work closely with the tourism promotion authorities in south china to enhance our position as the gateway to many attractions in the region , " mr tung said .
" in addition , a task force has been set up by the government , the tourist association and all sectors of the industry to enhance our competitiveness and continue to promote hong kong as a tourist destination . "
mr tung said the recent downturn in tourism had raised concerns about the industry .
he said rising costs were becoming a deterrent while competition from neighboring cities was increasing .
" to maintain hong kong 's attractiveness as a travel destination , all sectors of the industry need to examine their cost structure and business practises , " he said .
" we will continue to plan and invest in tourism facilities and attractions .
new projects such as the hong kong exposition , a film city , a virtual reality theme park and a new cruise terminal are being studied by the hong kong tourist association . "
in regards to the film and broadcasting industries , mr tung said hong kong was now $number only to hollywood in the number of films exported .
he said hong kong produced $number films and $number hours of original tv programmes each year .
" we will set up a film services office to help the ( film ) industry with production and location shooting issues , " he said .
" to help the development of this industry , a site designated for film production use has been included in this year 's land disposal programme .
" in addition , the secretary for broadcasting , culture and sport will establish and chair a film services advisory committee to promote dialogue between the industry and government . "
mr tung also announced a comprehensive review of the television market would be carried out $date , with a view to promoting competition , widening choice and encouraging innovation .
ce wants hong kong to be an 'innovation centre ' the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( wednesday ) in his policy address that he aims to make hong kong an innovation centre for south china and the region .
but more needed to be done to stimulate the exchange of ideas between university researchers , businessmen and industrialists and customers to drive forward innovation and turn technological development into commercial products .
" we also need to tap the talents and the results of scientific research in the mainland , " mr tung said .
" i shall be setting up a high - level committee of academics , industrialists , businessmen and officials to advise me on what steps hong kong should take to achieve my aim ( of making hong kong an innovation centre ) . "
mr tung said innovation , adapting to new technologies and developing new industries will always be important for hong kong .
he said the government had set up the industry support fund and the applied research fund to encourage innovation and support the development of new industries .
" we are reviewing their operation to ensure they work effectively to stimulate advancement in our industries , " mr tung said .
" we stand ready to inject up to $ $number into the applied research fund , specifically to support the commercialisation of research in information technology and other high technology fields .
" we will release the money once it is clear that the fund continues to be effective in meeting the objective of upgrading our industry in terms of value and technology . "
mr tung said the government would start to develop a science park at pak shek kok , with land becoming available for phase i $date .
land had also been earmarked for a $number industrial technology centre in kowloon tong , with expected development to take three years .
mr tung said a $number industrial estate would be established in tuen mun $date , when the existing land bank of the industrial estates corporation had been exhausted .
" to meet the changing operational requirements of local and international companies , we are commissioning a study into setting up a business park , " he said .
ce sets out labour initiatives training and retraining are key factors in ensuring every member of the workforce can maintain the prospect of finding a job , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said in his policy address today ( wednesday ) .
mr tung also said hong kong would continue to import labour to give the economy the flexibility it needed to maintain competitiveness .
but he said priority would be given to employing hong kong citizens and that the doors would not be open to the unrestricted importation of labour .
mr tung said there had been constant restructuring of hong kong 's employment market as flexible and efficient businesses continued to adapt to market opportunities and labour - intensive industries moved to the mainland .
as a result , hong kong needed to adapt its training and retraining courses to meet the needs of tomorrow 's working environment . he said the role and future direction of the vocational training council and employees retraining board had been critically reviewed .
" they will be revising courses and developing new ones to respond robustly to market needs and to improve their flexibility , " mr tung said .
mr tung said the construction industry was undertaking a special exercise to meet expected ( labour ) demand caused by government 's plans to boost housing supply and build supporting infrastructure .
a study on manpower needs in various trades will be completed this year and a working group had been looking at manpower demands and training , he said .
" the working group is now setting out its plan for the expansion of training and retraining programmes and discussing measures to encourage employment of trained local workers by contractors , " mr tung said .
mr tung said the labour importation issue had vexed the community for a number of years .
he stressed the importance of providing jobs for hong kong citizens but said the sar could not tie its hands if it could not meet demand from within its own resources .
" i will not open the doors to unrestricted import of labour , " mr tung said .
" if necessary , we will consider the need for importing labour to make up for shortage in specific trades or posts .
" while we operate under the principle of giving priority to local workers , we do need to improve our supplementary labour scheme , to give our economy the flexibility that it needs to maintain our competitiveness .
" recommendations for amending the supplementary scheme are being studied .
i trust they will strike the right balance between the concerns of our workers and the needs of our economy . "
mr tung said a review , which should be completed this year , was being conducted on the pilot scheme for entry of mainland professionals into hong kong .
he said the aim was to come up with effective and appropriate measures to meet the needs of employers in certain trades to bring in professional staff from the mainland with the skills , knowledge and experience of value to hong kong but not readily available here .
ce pledges tougher action against 'pirates ' tougher enforcement action against the sale of pirated and counterfeit goods has been promised by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , in his $number policy address today ( wednesday ) .
mr tung said hong kong must provide a robust regime , in full accordance with international standards , to protect patents , trademarks , registered designs and copyright .
" we will take more effective enforcement action against all forms of infringements against intellectual property rights , especially the sale of pirated and counterfeit goods , " said mr tung .
" we will continue our raids against retail blackspots . we will tackle illicit trade in copyright - infringing articles .
" we will not allow the acts of illegal businessmen to erode the development of creative business and do harm to the reputation of the hksar . "
mr tung said hong kong , as a responsible trading partner , would also increase resources for control on trade in strategic commodities .
this will give hong kong 's partners the confidence to continue the supply of high - tech products to hong kong .
" we will also strengthen our textile export control system against illegal transhipment of textile products , to ensure genuine hong kong products have free access to world markets . "
plan to make hong kong an ' it ' leader a wide - ranging plan to make hong kong a leader in the 'information world of tomorrow ' has been unveiled today ( wednesday ) by the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , in his inaugural policy address .
mr tung said the uses of information technology (it) today were only a foretaste of things to come .
included in mr tung 's vision for hong kong 's it future are plans to : * set up a common software interface on established communications networks to allow individuals , business and government to interact easily and securely on their own systems ; * co - ordinate the work and development of information technology within government and the sar by centralising responsibility for this under one bureau secretary ; * connect all schools to the internet and increase the number of computers in primary and secondary schools ; * enhance training in it use for $number teachers and set up an it education resource centre to support the management of school it systems .
mr tung said the government aimed to ensure that the private sector had an open market and a well - developed skills base to build on our head start in the field of information technology infrastructure hardware .
he said negotiations had been opened to liberalise international telecommunications services in hong kong .
mr tung said there was a huge market in the growth of information industries .
" this market , its development , is not simply a matter of telephones and television ; it is about introducing entirely new ways of doing business and interacting in the community , from banking and shopping to learning and entertainment , " he said .
" the scope of those services knows few boundaries other than the imagination .
" my administration will harness the new technology to improve its efficiency and services .
" the real challenge is for the business sector , indeed the whole community , to experiment , adapt and develop these new tools to enlarge our vision , conquer new markets and create new patterns of life for our entire community . "
housing targets 'considerable challenge ' : ce the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( wednesday ) that achieving the three targets of adequate housing is a considerable challenge .
he said : " it is not just a matter of producing more flats , but of ensuring an even annual supply and a high degree of predictability that supply will be sustained .
" that is the only way to ensure moderate prices , " mr tung added .
this required a " well defined , rolling five - year land disposal programme " against a longer $number - year planning horizon .
" it also requires a radical reform of planning and co - ordination functions within the government , " he said .
the administration had responded vigorously to the challenge , mr tung said , with the financial secretary having set up a task force known as the steering committee on land supply for housing (houscom) .
mr tung said houscom had translated into well - defined tasks the three housing targets , namely to build at least $number $number flats a year in the public and private sectors ; to achieve a home ownership rate of $number per cent in $number years ; and to reduce the average waiting time for public rental housing to three years .
it had also developed a realistic production programme and revised the procedures for land and housing development to ensure that absolute priority was given to housing .
mr tung said a five - year land sales programme already announced would provide $number hectares for private housing up to $date , and an additional $number hectares in the following three financial years .
additionally , there would be $number hectares of land for public - sector housing over the same period .
" together with developments initiated by private land owners and those associated with railway developments and public housing redevelopment , this level of supply will translate into a production pattern rising from around $number $number flats $date to $number $number flats a year with effect from $number , " he said .
" houscom is finalising a $number - year programme , which includes site specification information for $number five years , with the aim of sustaining annual production of at least $number $number flats . "
to provide more land , mr tung said , the government would within the next $number years develop strategic growth areas in tseung kwan o , tung chung and tai ho on lantau , the northwest new territories and southeast kowloon ; proceed with the tsuen wan bay and green island reclamations ; and rezone suitable agricultural and industrial area for housing development .
he added : " to meet the growing demand from more international professionals operating in hong kong , $number hectares of land , sufficient for at least $number $number large flats , will be sold before $date in areas such as the peak , hong kong island south , sha tin , tai po and south lantau , in addition to the $number hectares already included in the sales programme up to $date .
" to further increase the supply of this category of flats , in this financial year we are releasing $number government quarters and three sites now used for civil servants quarters . "
$number public housing flats for sale $date $number batch of $number public housing flats will be sold early next year at " reasonable and affordable " prices to meet the target of achieving $number per cent home ownership by the year $number , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( wednesday ) .
speeding up land supply for housing development will help both private and public sectors contribute towards this target , mr tung added .
other measures will be taken to maximise opportunities for families to buy their own homes , he said .
the prices will take into account the age and location of the flats and other relevant factors .
flexible mortgage arrangements will be negotiated with financial institutions ; the conditions of flats will be checked and essential renovation works carried out before sale ; a structural guarantee period will be provided ; owners ' corporations will be set up , maintenance funds will be established , partly with contribution from sale proceeds , and reasonable resale conditions will be drawn up , mr tung said .
he said : " we expect to receive from the housing authority details of such a scheme in time for the government to take a decision by the end of this year , so that $number batch of $number flats can be sold early $date . "
other measures include more subsidised home ownership flats to be built , and the number of sandwich class housing flats to be increased , raising the total stock to $number units by the year $number , mr tung added .
he also said a pilot scheme would be implemented to tender selected sites , subject to the requirement that the developer would hand over at least $number per cent of the flats built to the government for sale to eligible purchasers at designated prices .
the land disposal programme , the streamlining of procedures , the rezoning and the infrastructure development will make it possible for the private sector to produce up to $number flats a year from the year $number , mr tung added .
he said : " we have a mechanism to ensure that flats on new development land are completed within a fixed period .
we will monitor production in the private sector closely to ensure that targets are met .
mr tung added : " to promote stability in the market , we have put in place a more effective system for monitoring the residential property market and have drawn up a package of measures to introduce at short notice should signs of excessive speculation emerge at any time .
if need arises , we will use them . "
improving the supply of subsidised rental housing to those in genuine need , mr tung said , was no less important a part of the government 's housing strategy .
" we will reduce the waiting time for public rental housing from the present average of six - and - a - half years to under five years $date , to four years $date and to no more than three years on average $date .
" at present we assign $number $number flats a year to waiting list applicants .
to meet our targets , from $number we will provide an average of $number $number flats each year , and to ensure that they go to those in genuine need , we will introduce $date a means test of income and assets for all prospective public housing tenants . "
urban redevelopment to speed up an urban renewal authority is to be set up $date to help housing redevelopment , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , disclosed today ( wednesday ) .
mr tung said that added to the challenge of providing enough new housing was the large stock of old or inadequate housing in the urban area .
" at current rates of redevelopment , this stock of housing $number years old will double from $number per cent to $number per cent of private housing over the next $number years .
" redevelopment is a complex process but we must address the challenge more vigorously if we are to ensure that hong kong 's inhabitants have good homes in a good environment . "
this will involve a number of measures , including the redevelopment of old industrial areas into housing , a review of plot ratios and set time limits for handling public objections to residential developments .
mr tung said : " ability to resume land for redevelopment is the key .
we aim to set up an urban renewal authority $date to build on the good work that has been accomplished by the land development corporation . "
legislation will be introduced to give the authority effective powers to carry out resumption and comprehensive redevelopment .
" we will also introduce legislation to assist property owners and developers to assemble land so as to quicken the process of renewal by the private sector , " he added .
turning to safety of residential buildings , mr tung said a mandatory building safety inspection scheme would be introduced $date .
a $ $number " urban rehabilitation fund " will be set up to provide loans to owners of old buildings in targeted areas for rehabilitation .
" recent tragic accidents have shown the need for much greater awareness of the danger of fire and for closer co - operation between government and the community in the fight against fire .
" a package of legislation and administrative measures to improve fire safety will be introduced by the secretary for security , " mr tung said , adding that slope safety would also be improved on .
quality of environment at heart of planning : ce the administration will be taking immediate steps to address water and air quality problems , and to reduce waste , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( wednesday ) .
tackling the issue of the environment in his policy address , mr tung said hong kong needed to put the quality of its environment at the heart of all its planning .
" improving the quality of the environment is as vital as economic growth to improving our quality of life .
" we will ensure that consideration of how to sustain and enhance the environment is built into strategic planning and policy making . "
mr tung said : " we have just commenced a study into sustainable development .
we will seek to involve the whole community in learning and discussing what that means for us and for the way we do business . "
the new stonecutters island sewage treatment works is operating well , while rigorous environmental monitoring is being carried out which will help with design of future stages of the strategic sewage disposal scheme , the completion of phase i $date .
" subject to the outcome of further studies , we aim to complete phases ii , iii and iv steadily thereafter to extend the coverage and quality of the treatment system .
" we will shortly introduce a trial scheme for liquefied petroleum gas (lpg) powered taxis .
once the technical issues have been settled , we will implement a plan to replace diesel powered vehicles with lpg or other cleaner technologies as soon as possible . "
$date , a waste reduction plan will be launched , mr tung said . " we will examine all processes to see whether we can be more efficient in handling and reducing waste . "
senior citizen residence scheme in the pipeline the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( wednesday ) that a " senior citizen residence scheme " will be introduced to increase the supply of housing for the elderly .
under the scheme , flats would be built in the urban area to lease for life to the elderly .
" we will also increase subvented residential care places by $number through the bought place scheme over the next three years , " mr tung said .
a new dementia supplement would be introduced and the infirmary care supplement would be maintained to enable subvented care homes to provide continuity of care to the elderly , mr tung added .
cssa scheme under review the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( wednesday ) that he has asked the secretary for health and welfare to conduct a study of the scope and the administration of the comprehensive social security assistance (cssa) scheme next year .
mr tung said there had been much public debate about what was meant by providing adequate social security to those who did not have the means to support themselves .
" i am aware of the concern that some elderly persons are not eligible for cssa payments if they have assets above a certain level , " he said .
" there is consensus in the community that more must be done for the elderly , particularly the single elderly . " we need to be compassionate and caring .
but , we should not remove incentives to work . "
by conducting the study , it would ensure that neither of these considerations were compromised , mr tung said .
services for people with disabilities improved the health and welfare bureau , in consultation with voluntary and non - government organisations , would review the demand for different types of services and support for people with disabilities next year , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( wednesday ) .
" we will plan ahead for the next five years in the light of the findings to meet the special needs of this group , " mr tung said .
he said the administration would make efforts to ensure that the needs of people with disabilities were addressed .
" our goals remain to provide suitable rehabilitation services and support and assistance to this group , so that they can develop their potential and integrate fully into this community , sharing the same opportunities as their fellow citizens , " he said .
help to new mainland arrivals the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , stressed the need to help children of hong kong citizens born in the mainland .
" all those eligible under the basic law have a right to come here .
ours is a caring society .
our duty is to ensure that our citizens quickly feel part of our community and can rapidly start to contribute to our society , " mr tung said in his inaugural policy address today ( wednesday ) .
" we need to make sure that the territory have the proper facilities to receive these children without affecting existing programmes and services for the community . "
the administration was taking steps to provide education , training and housing and was encouraging a wide variety of social services adapted to the needs of these new arrivals .
" we are working closely with the authorities on the mainland to make the necessary arrangements for the arrival of these children , " mr tung said .
the secretary for home affairs was co - ordinating the delivery of services by government departments and non - governmental organisations , to ensure that all new arrivals knew the services that were available and were helped to find work or support where they needed it , he added .
women 's interests considered the administration will always give consideration to the interests of women , and to the promotion of equality of opportunity , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said in his policy address today ( wednesday ) .
" the women of hong kong make a most significant contribution to the prosperity and progress of our community , " he said .
health care system under review the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said in his inaugural policy address today ( wednesday ) that the secretary for health and welfare will carry out a comprehensive review of the existing health care system next year to draw up suitable long term policies .
in the review , the administration would examine how to achieve a better interface between primary health care , out - patient and hospital in - patient services and whether the existing split of workload the public and private sectors was reasonable , he said .
it would also study how patients and the community could best share health care costs , mr tung said , adding that the subject would further be addressed in his next year 's policy address .
explaining why a review was needed , mr tung said he fully understood the concerns that had recently been raised about hospital services .
" these are important issues for us , and the hospital authority is addressing them .
" there are also questions about out - patient services that we need to deal with .
" beyond these , our health care system faces a number of challenges in the longer term . we have a growing and ageing population . the community has ever rising aspirations for quality care .
" as a result , health care expenditure would continue to escalate , " he said .
" starting from preventive medicine , we will increase co - operation in world - wide efforts to monitor disease patterns and enhance our ability to respond effectively to outbreaks .
" at the same time , we will strongly promote health education programmes .
" many illnesses common to women or to the elderly can be prevented : we must ensure that they have the knowledge and the support needed to enjoy healthier lives , " he added .
in addition , health facilities will also be improved with the new kowloon bay primary health care centre and nursing home opening next year , providing new general out - patient and specialist treatment services as well as a radiography support centre .
mr tung said that to extend hospital services , $number additional hospital beds would be brought into use next year .
judiciary continues to uphold rule of law the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , expresses confidence that the judiciary will continue to uphold the rule of law in hong kong by dispensing justice without fear or favour .
a credible and independent judicial system underpins the territory 's present success , he said .
mr tung said that the basic law provided for the continuation of the rule of law and the judicial system beyond $date with no fundamental changes .
the common law and all the laws previously in force here , except for any that contravened the basic law , were maintained .
" the judicial system continues to operate fairly and independently as before , " he added .
giving details of two major changes to the judicial system , mr tung said that the power of final adjudication was now vested in the court of final appeal (cfa) of the hong kong special administrative region .
with the appointment of judges and formulation of court rules , the cfa set up on $date is now in full swing .
" for $number time in our history , we have a fully integrated system of courts within hong kong , " mr tung said .
another milestone has been the establishment of a bilingual court system in which the chinese language can be used along with the english language .
" we take pride in having a court system capable of dispensing justice in a language which the vast majority of hong kong people can understand . "
" at the same time , it is important that the common law is maintained and developed , " he said .
mr tung noted that there were difficulties that could arise when chinese was used in the common law setting , so the judiciary had been implementing the use of chinese in courts prudently , so as not to compromise the operation of the common law in any way .
elections to be democratic and open next year 's elections are $number step in a $number year timetable laid down by the basic law for the elections of the chief executive and the legislative council , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , stated in his policy address today ( wednesday ) .
" we will be working out the details in accordance with the principles of democracy and openness required by the basic law and expected by the people of hong kong .
" together we will work steadily towards our long term objective of having a chief executive and a legislature elected by universal suffrage , " mr tung said .
on the regional organisations , the municipal councils and the district boards , mr tung will ask the secretary for constitutional affairs to consider how to take forward public consultation on whether the present structure of local representative government will continue to ensure the efficient and responsive delivery of services to the evolving community .
noting that the hong kong sar has an executive - led government , mr tung said that the excessive arm of government would continue to serve the community through the proper exercise of its powers and the faithful discharge of its responsibilities under the monitoring of the legislature and the public .
" i can assure everyone that this government will remain an open government , respecting the freedom of the press and of the media , " the chief executive said .
turning to the civil service , the secretary for the treasury has been tasked to lead a special group to develop and implement a target - based management process to achieve continuous improvement in public services .
the group will focus its early efforts on the areas of housing and care for the elderly .
" to promote the objective of managing for results , we must expand the leadership and strategic management capacity of the civil service , " mr tung said , adding that the secretary for the civil service would organise a tailor - made high level leadership programme for senior officials who lead and manage the change process .
the programmes set out by the chief executive in his $number policy address will lead to an increase of $ $number in recurrent spending in the next financial year , rising to $ $number annually for the financial year beginning in $date .
while over the same five year period , capital expenditure of $ $number will be incurred .
" this represents public money being reinvested in the community to carry hong kong into the new millennium , " mr tung said . " we will continue to seek ways to return the benefits of today 's prosperity to the community , and to invest wisely to ensure future prosperity and the strengthening of hong kong 's competitiveness , " he added .
statement on children ii court cases commenting on the ruling made by the court of $number instance today ( thursday ) on four test cases involving children illegal immigrants from china , an sar government spokesman said , " we welcome the court 's judgement which has affirmed the legality of the certificate of entitlement scheme and its legislative backing .
" we will continue to operate the certificate of entitlement scheme and to discuss with mainland authorities to speed up the admission of eligible children through the one way permit scheme .
accordingly , all children , including children born out of wedlock , have to obtain a valid travel document with a certificate of entitlement affixed to it as proof of their status . "
as at the end of $date , $number certificates have been issued and $number eligible children have arrived in hong kong .
" as to the ruling on children born out of wedlock , we are seeking legal advice on it , " the spokesman said .
sar government proposes amendments to legco ordinance the sar government has proposed an amendment order to better define the electorate base of the social welfare and the textiles and garment functional constituencies in the $number elections , an sar government spokesman said today ( thursday ) .
the legislative council ordinance ( amendment of schedule $number ) order $number , which has been endorsed by the executive council , is to address problems posed by amendments to the legislative council bill passed by the provisional legislative council ( pro - legco ) on $date .
one of the amendments , moved by the hon chan kam - lam , seeks to expand the electorate of the social welfare functional constituency (fc) by including societies exempted under the societies ordinance and non - profit making companies registered under the companies ordinance whose aims are related to the promotion and development of social service activities .
" however , the terms 'social service ' and 'non - profit making ' are not defined , and this may give rise to arguments and pose problems for implementation , " the spokesman said .
as such , alumni associations , student unions , social and recreational clubs , sports clubs , etc. purported to promote social service activities could arguably claim to be entitled to be eligible voter in this fc .
to avoid ambiguity , the government proposes to define the scope of 'social service ' to relate only to welfare services by making reference to the seven programme areas included within the purview of the social welfare department , namely : (a) family and child welfare services ; (b) services for young people ; (c) services for the elderly ; (d) services for offenders ; (e) rehabilitation services ; (f) community development ; or (g) social security .
to define which societies or companies should be eligible , the government has made reference to the constitution of the hong kong council of social service (hkcss) .
" we consider that those societies or companies which wish to be included in the social welfare fc should be brought under the same footing as hkcss members in that any published annual reports and audited / certified accounts would be accepted as a relevant document to support their bona - fides , " the spokesman said .
the government also proposes to define 'non - profit making company ' as one which is formed for the purpose of promoting the objects as specified in the provision and is required by its constitution to apply its profits , if any , or other income solely in promoting those objects and to prohibit the payment of any dividend to its members .
" in order to ensure that eligible electors are bona fide social welfare bodies , we also propose that the exempted societies and non - profit making companies concerned should be operating with paid employees to provide service on a regular basis in accordance with defined aims .
" in addition , we also propose that the societies / companies concerned should have been operating under these aims for at least $number months before the date of application for registration as electors , " the spokesman said .
this requirement would prevent exempted societies and non - profit making companies from changing their aims to match those now specified in the provision simply for the purpose of getting qualified for inclusion in this fc .
as for the textiles and garment fc , eligible voters under the current formulation will include registrants of the textiles traders registration scheme (ttrs) who are carrying on business in specified types of imports or exports of textiles .
this is the outcome of an amendment to the legislative council bill moved by the hon choy so - yuk .
" to help screen in those who are eligible for inclusion in this fc , we propose that ttrs registrants should be accepted as eligible electors if they have declared 'import and export ' as their nature of business when registering with ttrs , " the spokesman said .
those who have not so declared are also eligible if they can provide import / export notification , to show that they are carrying on import and export business .
" in order to prevent the ttrs from being abused as a means to acquiring voting right , we also propose that an additional requirement should be imposed so that only those who have registered under the ttrs for at least $number months before the voter registration date could become eligible for registration as electors in this fc , " the spokesman said .
the secretary for constitutional affairs will move a motion to seek pro - legco 's approval of the amendment order at the pro - legco meeting on $date .
statement on habeas corpus case involving ecviis the administration will apply to a justice of appeal for a stay of an order by $number court of instance today ( thursday ) that $number ex - china vietnamese illegal immigrant (ecvii) applicants for habeas corpus should be released , an sar government spokesman confirmed .
mr justice keith , who passed the judgement , was prepared to grant a stay of his release order until $number pm on $date ( tuesday ) in order to allow the government time to file its application to the appeal court .
" the administration will appeal against today 's release order as well as the court judgement on $date that freed seven test applicants in the same case . " notice of appeal will be lodged as soon as possible , " the spokesman said .
recall of ice - cream bars supported in response to an announcement by the dreyer 's grand ice cream today ( thursday ) of the voluntary withdrawal of all dreyer 's ice - cream bars ( cookies ' n cream ; vanilla and almond ) from sale at hong kong market , a spokesman for the department of health (dh) said : " the department of health supports the action taken by the company as all dreyer 's ice - cream bars are produced in the same plant in dallas , texas .
" earlier , the department found bacteria , listeria monocytogenes , in two samples of dreyer 's cookies ' n ice cream bar on sale here .
" it is understood that production at the dallas plant has already been voluntarily suspended since the incident to facilitate investigation .
" there is no evidence so far to indicate that other dreyer 's products manufactured at other locations in the united states are affected .
" the department of health is currently testing samples of the full range of dreyer 's ice - cream products taken in the course of investigation of the incident . laboratory results are expected soon and will be announced .
" retailers are asked to comply with the withdrawal notice of the company and stop the sale of all dreyer 's ice cream bars .
" public who may have purchased dreyer 's ice cream bars are advised to return them for refund or replacement according to arrangements made by the company .
" the bacteria , listeria monocytogenes , is more commonly associated with other food such as soft cheese and ready - to - eat food .
in others , particularly the young , the old and pregnant women , it may present with fever , nausea , vomiting and diarrhoea .
in more severe cases , it can cause infection of the brain and meningitis . the disease can also cause abortions in pregnant women .
" no reports of any persons being affected by listeria monocytogenes have been received so far . "
ting kau bridge to open next year the $number $number - metre long ting kau bridge will be open in $date to provide an alternative access to lantau link .
speaking on the project at a press visit today ( thursday ) , the project director / lantau fixed crossing of highways department , mr lau ching - kwong , said erection of the bridge 's $number deck units , each weighs $number tonnes , was in good progress .
" construction of the approach viaducts and ramps is near completion .
it will connect to route $number ( country park section ) , tuen mun road and road systems for tsing yi island , lantau island , kowloon and hong kong island .
" motorists from the north - west new territories can use the bridge to access directly to lantau link in addition to the cheung tsing tunnel and local road network on tsing yi island , " mr lau said .
costing $ $number , the bridge is a cable stayed bridge with three bridge towers up to $number metres high and with a dual - three carriageway of $number metres in width in each direction .
spanning over the $number - metre wide rambler channel , the ting kau bridge will rank among the longest cable stayed bridges in the world .
environmental impact assessment regulations gazetted two regulations which are needed in order to bring the environmental impact assessment (eia) ordinance into operation are gazetted today ( thursday ) .
under the ordinance , arrangements for appeal are provided .
also , fees are payable for applications for an eia study brief , an eia report and for various applications in relation to environmental permits .
details of the appeal procedures are set out in the eia ( appeal board ) regulation whereas the eia ( fees ) regulation prescribes the fees to be charged for various applications under the statutory eia arrangements .
a government spokesman said the eia ordinance , enacted in $date , aimed to improve and strengthen the eia system in hong kong , while providing a clear , transparent and consistent framework for both project proponents and the government to follow .
the implementation of the eia ordinance ensures that major development projects would go through the statutory eia process to identify environmental problems , and implement effective prevention and mitigation arrangements to protect the environment .
" the fees are set in line with the government policy that fees should in general be set at levels adequate to recover the full costs of providing the services and in line with the 'polluter pays principle ' , " the spokesman said .
" for projects which require submission of eia reports , the proposed fee , on average , constitute only a very small fraction , at $number per cent , of the project costs .
" the cost impact on the trades is therefore very mild whereas the general public is unlikely to be affected . "
" the appeal board regulation would help improve the eia system in hong kong , and thus would benefit the economy , " he added .
the environmental protection department would provide a technical memorandum on eia process and guidance notes to applicants to facilitate the preparation of applications .
professional organisations , environmental bodies and interested parties were consulted before the enactment of the eia ordinance . the establishment of a dedicated appeal board for the eia ordinance was welcome by all the organisations consulted .
the regulations were endorsed by the advisory council on the environment .
fee revision for companies registry a number of fees payable to the registrar of companies will be revised with effect from $date .
the revision , published in the government gazette today ( thursday ) , includes fees covering a wide range of services provided by the companies registry in relation to the registration and incorporation of companies and limited partnerships .
fees to be revised are those payable to the registrar of companies under the companies ordinance ( amendment of $number schedule ) order $number ; the companies ordinance ( fee for taking affidavit , affirmation or declaration ) ( amendment ) notice $number and the limited partnerships ordinance ( amendment of schedule ) order $number .
a sar government spokesman today ( thursday ) said : " the average $number increase was in line with the increase in costs due to inflation over the past $number months .
these fees were last revised in $date .
" higher rates of increase are applied to four fee items in the companies ordinance ( amendment of $number schedule ) order $number in order to rationalise the existing basis of charges .
those fees are charged in accordance to the users - pay principle . "
since its establishment as a trading fund in $date , the registry is continuously seeking to improve service quality and efficiency .
currently , the registry is working on two main development projects which will further enhance the efficiency in making searches for company records by customers .
the projects are the expansion of the registry 's database to capture more key data on companies and the provision of an on - line public search facility to allow customers to access the registry 's database in their own offices .
the registry has budgeted for this relatively modest increase in fees to enable it to continue with its programme of developments and improvements in technology and services .
new resources earmarked for the conservation of mai po new resources have been earmarked for the conservation of mai po and inner deep bay area after its listing as $number ramsar site of china .
the ministry of foreign affairs of the people 's republic of china notified the director - general of the united nations educational , scientific and cultural organization in $date that : " the convention of wetlands of international importance especially as waterfowl habitat .... will continue to apply to the hong kong special administrative region with effect from $date , and .... the mai po marshes of the hong kong special administrative region will be the wetland designated by the people 's republic of china on the list of wetlands of international importance . "
a sar government spokesman today ( thursday ) said this formal recognition of the mai po and inner deep bay area as china 's $number wetland of international importance ( ramsar site ) under the ramsar convention demonstrated the internationally important status of the area for wildlife conservation .
" the agriculture and fisheries department (afd) has commissioned a consultancy study to develop a conservation strategy and a management plan for the ramsar site . " the study , completed in $date , recommended the setting up of a ramsar management authority within afd to oversee the conservation management of the site .
the study also recommended $number projects and a staff structure to implement the projects so as to meet hong kong 's obligations under the convention .
" the sar government in general supports the recommendations and has earmarked funds $date $number to create $number new posts and to provide project funds of $ $number for afd to implement the recommendations of the consultancy study , " the spokesman said .
conservation projects plan to be carried out $date $number include a review of the ecological condition of the ramsar site , the establishment of a baseline ecological monitoring programme for the site , and the setting up of a species recovery plan for the endangered black - faced spoonbill .
at the same time , the government has allocated a sum of $ $number for subventing non - government organizations to meet part of the expenses in conserving , maintaining , improving and creating habitats , and providing education programmes for the conservation of the ramsar site .
" the government is committed to the conservation of the mai po and inner deep bay ramsar site and will implement the recommendations of the consultancy study to fulfil the commitments under the ramsar convention subject to availability of resources , " the spokesman said .
site for proposed marine life centre discussed site selection will be one of the determinant factors in considering the application to construct the proposed marine life centre at hoi ha wan .
this was the major issue discussed in the latest country and marine parks board meeting on tuesday ( $date ) , after the world wide fund for nature hong kong ( wwf hk ) has presented details of the proposed centre .
representatives of wwf hk told the board that a marine - based site was the preferred option for the centre when taking into account all relevant factors such as coral growth , seabed features , ground conditions , vehicular access , cost and time constraints .
the consultant of wwf hk considered that the marine - based centre would be visually unobstructive and would integrate well with its surrounding environment .
while the board was in general support of the objectives of the project in marine conservation education , special concern was expressed on the siting of the centre and its impact on the pristine environment .
board members stressed that the natural environment should not be sacrificed and every effort should be made to keep the disturbance of the project to the minimum .
to enable members to have a better assessment of the project , a site visit to hoi ha wan marine park was scheduled . another special board meeting will be held afterwards to further discuss the project .
meanwhile , the board was consulted on the control of dogs under the proposed dangerous dogs regulation . it was unanimously agreed that the present practice on the control of dogs in country parks should be continued .
in the same meeting , the transparency of the board was also highlighted . members decided to consider the possibility of opening its meetings within this term .
apart from that , members were briefed on the recommendations made by the education and scientific studies sub - committee on applications to conduct scientific studies in marine parks and marine reserve . a total of $number studies were recommended by the board for approval .
the board also endorsed the membership of three committees and elected mr fung shiu - wing , mr john wong and professor brian morton as chairmen of the country parks committee , public relations committee and marine parks committee respectively .
education camp to disseminate anti - drug messages about $number secondary school students from $number schools will attend an anti - drug education camp from tomorrow ( friday ) to sunday ( $date ) .
jointly organised by the civil aid service (cas) cadet corps and education department , the three - day anti - drug education camp $number is targeted at youngsters and aimed at enhancing their understanding of the harmful effects of drugs .
sponsored by the beat drugs fund , the camp , to be held at cas yuen tun camp , features talks , group games , telematches and team competition to encourage young people to develop healthy and positive attitudes and to say " no " to drugs .
the camp was $number held last year when $number students nominated by their schools took part . end / thursday , $date nnnn
fsd time capsules a symbol of service commitment the time capsules planted by the fire services department (fsd) at the chek lap kok fire station , which symbolize fsd 's continuous service commitment to the community , are $number ones under the flag of the hong kong special administrative region , the director of fire services , mr peter cheung said today ( thursday ) . speaking at a time capsule planting ceremony , mr cheung said the development of north lantau and the comprehensive road network did not only help improve traffic flow in the areas but also enabled the fire services to provide a much more efficient emergency cover for these areas .
he said : " having considered the fact that people have started moving into the tung chung new town from $date this year , the tung chung fire station cum ambulance depot was put into commission in may to meet the demands of the new town . "
mr cheung said another new fire station cum ambulance depot in sham tseng would also be completed by the end of the year .
he said the department also planned to have new fire stations in areas like ma wan in the near future to cope with the foreseeable development there .
on the new airport in chek lap kok , he said the department had already begun to deploy , by phases , fire appliances to the chek lap kok fire station on $date .
he said : " the two new fire stations and the two sea rescue units in the airport will be set up separately next year . "
mr cheung believed that these facilities would be adequate to cope with any emergency situations inside or outside the new airport , providing it with the best safety facilities in the world .
the two time capsules placed at the fire station will be reopened after $number and $number years respectively .
the time capsules contain different kinds of souvenirs and documents of the department which serve as mementoes of the handing over of hong kong 's sovereignty and changes in the department .
large - scale employment exhibition in sha tin the labour department will stage an employment exhibition - " employment information post " next tuesday ( $date ) at shatin town hall to help job seekers to find jobs and assist employers to recruit suitable staff .
a total of $number employers from different trades including manufacturing , catering , department store , banking , hotel , retail , property management , telecommunications and transportation will participate in the exhibition and provide $number vacancies for job seekers .
they will brief job seekers on the job requirements of their vacancies and can arrange job interviews on the spot or on a later date .
five retraining institutes will also be present to provide job seekers with the latest information on retraining courses .
job seekers who are interested in the courses can submit applications at the venue .
the labour department will set up a counter at the venue to promote its all rounded employment and career advisory services catering for different types of job seekers .
a supplement on vacancies registered under the supplemen tary labour scheme (sls) will be distributed to job seekers .
on - the - spot registration will be provided to job seekers who wish to obtain the job matching services or apply for the sls vacancies .
information on current labour market situation , retraining services and job search techniques will be disseminated to job seekers by means of talks sessions and video shows .
the event is jointly organised by the labour department , the employees retraining board and six prominent employers associations .
more than $number people visited the exhibition held last year at tsuen wan town hall .
members of the public are welcome to visit the employment information post to be held from $number am to $number pm at the exhibition gallery , $number floor , shatin town hall , shatin .
tentative stamp issuing programme for $number announced the postmaster general , mr robert footman , announced today ( thursday ) the tentative stamp issuing programme for the year $number .
there will be six special stamp issues $date as follows .
the release dates are tentative and subject to change : a ) year of the tiger - $date ( sunday ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - this set of stamps , the last in the current series of lunar new year special stamps , will comprise four denominations in panes of $number stamps .
a souvenir sheet and a stamp booklet will also be issued .
the year of the tiger electronic postage labels ( frama labels ) will be released on $date .
b ) hong kong 's new airport - $date ( sunday ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - featuring the new airport at chek lap kok , this set will comprise six stamps .
apart from the normal sheets of $number stamps each , a special pane comprising four sets of stamps in setenent format will be introduced . a stamp sheetlet incorporating the $ $number stamp will also be issued .
c ) centenary of the star ferry - $date ( sunday ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - this set of four stamps will be issued to commemorate the $number anniversary of the " star ferry " .
d ) hong kong scouts - $date ( sunday ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - this set of stamps , which features hong kong scouts , will comprise four stamps .
e ) hong kong designs - $date ( sunday ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - a set of four stamps features hong kong 's achievement in various types of design work .
f ) hong kong kites - $date ( sunday ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - this set will comprise four stamps featuring different kinds of kites in hong kong . a souvenir sheet will also be issued .
apart from commemorative stamps , postage prepaid picture cards will also be issued for the following issues with the same release dates as the special stamps : a ) hong kong 's new airport b ) centenary of the star ferry c ) hong kong designs d ) hong kong kites further details of each stamp issue will be announced closer to the date of issue .
hong kong seashells special stamps on sale next month the postmaster general , mr robert footman , announced today ( thursday ) that a set of special stamps on the theme of hong kong seashells will be issued on sunday , $date .
this set of special stamps depicts four groups of seashells which are found around hong kong 's shores .
they are $ $number stamp ( clam ) , $ $number stamp ( cowrie ) , $ $number stamp ( cone ) and $ $number stamp ( murex ) . it is printed in photogravure and produced in panes of $number stamps .
the stamps were designed by mr ken li and printed by joh . enschede of the netherlands .
as from $date , the stamps will be on display for the advance information of the public at the general post office , tsim sha tsui post office , tsuen wan post office and sha tin central post office . official $number day covers will be put on sale at all post offices at $ $number each as from the same day .
advance orders for mint stamps , serviced $number day covers and presentation packs will be accepted at all post offices from $date to $number .
no handling fee is charged .
there is no limit on the order quantity but it must be in multiples of five and the minimum is five sets of stamps or five serviced $number day covers .
the order will be available for customers ' collection as from $date at the post office where the order is placed .
a beautifully designed presentation pack containing the four stamps will be available for sale at $ $number each at all post offices as from $date .
serviced $number day covers affixed with a full set of the stamps cancelled with the special postmark will be put on sale at $ $number each at the $number philatelic offices on $date .
a restriction of $number sheets of stamps of each denomination ( viz . $number sets of stamps ) , five presentation packs and five serviced $number day covers per customer queuing will be imposed on $number day of issue on $date and on subsequent days until stock lasts .
hand - back service will be provided at all post offices to official and privately - made covers bearing indication of $number day of issue on $date .
a special postmark will also be introduced .
the gpo-1 hand stamp will also be available for hand - back service at all $number philatelic offices .
all post offices will be opened on $date and the opening hours will be from $number am to $number pm .
however , counter services provided will be restricted to sale of the new stamps and acceptance of registered mails only .
commitment to improve health & welfare services reaffirmed the government is committed to upgrading welfare services and to protect and improve the health of the community , the secretary for health and welfare , mrs katherine fok , said today ( friday ) .
speaking at a press conference to explain various new commitments and strategies in the health and welfare portfolio , mrs fok reiterated the government 's objective of providing a sense of security , belonging and worthiness to the elderly members of our community .
noting that comprehensive social security allowance (cssa) has become a major source of income of some single elderly persons , mrs fok said that additional assistance under the scheme will be provided to this particular group so as to help them to live a more socially active life after retirement .
" as from $date , we will combine the annual chinese new year grant and the social and recreational activities grant under the cssa scheme and make them available on a monthly basis .
" taken together , this will increase the standard payment by $ $number per month which will be adjusted each year to take account of inflation . "
with this additional allowance and adding together the rent allowance , the average monthly payment for single elderly recipients will range from $ $number to $ $number and that for elderly couples will be about $ $number .
these include : * the establishment of $number visiting health teams and $number elderly health centres in the next two years ; * the setting up of $number additional home help teams $date $number ; and * the setting up of two carer 's support and resource centres $date $number .
on residential care service , mrs fok pointed out that $number residential care home places will be provided between $number ; a new dementia supplement will be provided for subvented residential care homes and a comprehensive review of the demand for residential care services will be conducted by the elderly commission .
on housing for the elderly , mrs fok expressed gratitude to the housing authority for providing $number additional public rental flats $date $number for allocation to the elderly , and said that a new senior citizen residence scheme in collaboration with the housing society will be introduced to construct flats to be leased for life to the elderly in urban areas .
mrs fok emphasised that the government had not ignored other welfare services .
as regards rehabilitation , major items of improvements $date $number will include : * six additional aftercare workers to look after ex - mental patients discharged from halfway houses ; * $number additional pre - school places ; and * $number training places in a new skills centre in kowloon .
" we will also conduct a comprehensive review of the demand for different types of rehabilitation services and support next year in order to plan for the next five years , " she said .
young people remain a major area of concern with the focus in the coming year being on young offenders and young people who are at risk , mrs fok said .
apart form the extension of the community service order scheme and the operation of the current pilot community support service scheme which will be put on a permanent basis , new service modes are being explored to meet the changing needs of young people . these include two pilot mobile teams to help night - drifters , as well as a screening tool to help identify at an early stage students who might be at risk .
turning to the health side , the secretary stressed that the goal of protecting and improving the health of the community would be achieved by : * preventing disease and promoting health ; * treating disease ; and * improving the quality of services in our clinics and hospitals .
" we will continue to examine various options , to ensure the efficient use of resources , which will enable us to provide high quality service to meet the needs of the community , " she said .
highlighting some of the areas of public concern , mrs fok said that an additional $number hospital beds and $number day places will come on stream $date while an additional $number hospital beds will be opened over the next five years .
" this programme will increase the hospital authority 's bed complement to nearly $number , " she said .
stressing that active promotion of primary health care services would continue to be one of her bureau 's most important tasks , mrs fok said that the general out - patient service would be strengthened to cope with the increase of population and the rising demand .
in this regard , the kowloon bay primary health care centre will be completed by the end of next year and three new clinics will be set up in the new territories over the next five years .
to take care of the health of the elderly , $number elderly health centres and $number visiting health teams would be set up to provide integrated health services , including preventive , curative , support and educational services to help them enjoy a healthy life - style .
on traditional chinese medicine (tcm) , mrs fok noted that legislation would be introduced in the $number legislative session to establish a legal framework to assess and monitor the professional qualifications of the tcm practitioners and their standard of practice , and to give professional recognition .
she also said that a comprehensive review of the existing health care system would be carried out to address the problem of escalating medical costs and to improve overall efficiency and effectiveness of the system .
crackdown on alterations to facilities for disabled the buildings department is conducting a series of inspections to crack down on alterations of facilities provided for disabled persons in commercial buildings .
" in $number case , we issued a letter yesterday requiring the owner of a yen chow street building to reinstate facilities for disabled persons which have been either removed , altered or misused , " a spokesman for the department said today ( friday ) .
" our inspectors found that the handrails of the ramps leading to shops and lifts on the ground floor had been removed , " the spokesman said .
" the ramp access to the lifts on $number floor was blocked by temporary stage structure and no proper handrails were provided , " he said .
" on $number and $number floors , the access area to toilet cubicles were enclosed for private use while the cubicles were locked up for storage purposes , " he said .
" we have asked the owner to complete the reinstatement works in accordance with approved building plans before $date , " the spokesman said , adding that a statutory order would be issued shortly under the buildings ordinance .
he pointed out that plans must be submitted by an authorised person for the building authority 's approval before any alteration or addition works could start in an existing building .
he stressed that it was a criminal offence to carry out unauthorised building works and to fail to comply with a statutory order .
the maximum penalty for carrying out unauthorised building works is two years ' imprisonment and a fine of $ $number .
" the maximum penalty for failing to comply with a statutory order is one year 's imprisonment and a fine of $ $number .
civic education to foster stronger sense of belonging the growing civic awareness of hong kong people is indicative of the effectiveness of the committee on the promotion of civic education (cpce) , the secretary for home affairs , mr david lan , said today ( friday ) while praising the committee for its good work over the years .
mr lan was speaking at the opening ceremony for a new round of civic education roving exhibitions at dragon centre , sham shui po , which adopts the theme of " hong kong is my home " . he noted that this theme was in line with the pledge in the chief executive 's $number policy address to strengthen civic education and to foster a stronger sense of belonging to hong kong .
he said the ultimate aim of civic education is to turn members of the public into good citizens .
mr lan also took the opportunity to call on all eligible voters to register for $number legislative council election after hong kong 's return to china .
now i would like to appeal to you all to register as voters and to cast your votes during the election , " he said .
also speaking at the opening ceremony , the chairman of cpce , mr moses cheng , praised the comprehensiveness of the materials shown in the exhibition and described them as very informative on various subjects it covered . he said the exhibits featured hong kong 's successes , its status as a special administrative region of china and a cosmopolitan city .
three sets of panels featuring pictorial illustrations on good citizenship and concern for china , understanding the basic law and respect for human rights are shown .
sham shui po is $number stop for the roving exhibition . thereafter , the exhibition will move to the other $number districts throughout the territory on fridays to sundays till $date next year .
at the ceremony , artiste mr daniel chan hiu - tung was appointed ambassador for civic education at the opening ceremony .
he will be participating in other promotional activities on civic education to drive home the message to young people .
sex and aids education expo $number to be launched a three - day sex and aids education expo will be held from $date ( friday ) to $date ( sunday ) at the special exhibition hall of the hong kong science museum , tsim sha tsui east , kowloon .
jointly organised by the hong kong sex education association and the committee on education and publicity on aids of the hong kong advisory council on aids , the expo will comprise fora , symposia , dramas , workshops , exhibitions and cultural events .
its main objectives are to promote and share the experience on sex and aids education ; and to co - ordinate and collaborate efforts in enhancing the development of innovative and quality sex and aids education activities .
the opening ceremony will be officiated by a member of the provisional legislative council , dr c h leong .
other officiating guests include the chairman of hong kong sex education association , mr li man - chiu ; chairman of the hong kong advisory council on aids , dr conrad lam ; chairman of the organising committee , ms carlye tsui and the deputy director of health , dr p y lam .
starts the electoral affairs commission (eac) today ( saturday ) call on members of the public to put forward their views on its provisional recommendations on the delineation of geographical constituency boundaries for the legislative council ( legco ) election by $date ( friday ) , $number .
speaking at a press conference to launch a two - week public consultation on the recommendations , the eac chairman , the honourable mr justice woo said the eac would take into account the public views expressed when compiling its final recommendations .
" the final recommendations are expected to be submitted to the chief executive by the statutory deadline on $date , " he said .
the five legislative council constituency areas ( lccas ) proposed by the eac , namely hong kong island , kowloon west , kowloon east , new territories west and new territories east , were formed by appropriate grouping of the $number district board constituency areas .
under the eac 's proposal , hong kong island consists of central and western , wan chai , eastern and southern districts .
kowloon west consists of yau tsim mong , sham shui po and kowloon city districts , while kowloon east comprises wong tai sin and kwun tong districts .
the new territories west consists of tsuen wan , tuen mun , kwai tsing , islands districts and part of yuen long district .
the new territories east comprises north , tai po , sha tin , sai kung districts and part of yuen long district .
hong kong island will be allocated four seats , kowloon east and west will each have three seats , while new territories east and west will each have five seats .
" in drawing up the proposal , the eac has based on a number of criteria prescribed in the legislative council ordinance and the electoral affairs commission ordinance , " mr justice woo said .
explaining the eac 's working principles in the demarcation exercise , mr justice woo said : " the population requirement is our prime consideration , owing to the significance placed on it by the electoral affairs commission ordinance . " where there were two or more ways of delineating lccas , the commission selected the method which resulted in the least departure from the population criterion for any of the lccas , except to pay due regard to considerations of community identities and preservation of local ties .
" where the adherence to the population criterion did not enable a full compliance with the boundary requirement , the least disturbance to the boundaries was attempted .
where it was necessary to split districts , the commission did so with the least number of districts being affected . "
mr justice woo said the eac considered that hong kong island , kowloon and the new territories should be treated separately .
each of the three areas should get the number of seats to which it was entitled by using the quotient reached from dividing the area 's population by the population quota .
he emphasised that in deciding on the electoral boundaries , the eac has maintained its apolitical stance .
" matters relating to maintaining political influence or advantage are not only irrelevant considerations for the eac , but the eac should avoid even giving any semblance of favouring any one politician or political party as against others . "
maps showing the boundaries of each proposed lcca and a document containing descriptions of the proposed constituencies are available for public inspection during office hours at the registration and electoral office , ( $number floor , harbour centre , $number harbour road , wan chai ) ; the home affairs department headquarters ( southorn centre , $number hennessy road , wan chai ) , district offices , public housing estate offices , post offices , provisional urban council and provisional regional council public libraries , and the government publications centre ( low block , ground floor , queensway government offices , $number queensway ) .
mr justice woo urged the public to come forward and make known their views , whether supportive or dissenting .
they should state their opinions with full reason .
" this would enable the eac to receive opposing or conflicting views and ensure that those who might be affected by any possible alteration made consequential upon a certain representation would not be so affected without having an opportunity of addressing the eac , " he said .
those who wish to comment on the provisional recommendations should send in their views in writing ( including by facsimile transmission ) to reach the eac by $date . the address of the eac is $number floor , harbour centre , $number harbour road , wan chai ( fax : $number $number ) .
late or anonymous representations will not be considered .
between $date , the eac will meet the public by appointment to listen to their views . individuals or organizations can call at $number $number before next thursday ( $date ) for appointments and enquiries .
bacteriological test results on ice cream products the department of health found two other samples of ice cream bars of the dreyer 's brand containing listeria monocytogenes in its latest round of bacteriological tests conducted on ice cream products on sale in hong kong .
the two contaminated samples belonged to dreyer 's vanilla & almond ice cream bar ( $number ml ) ( batch no. $number ) ( expiry date : $number $number ) .
a spokesman for the department of health said today ( saturday ) that a total of $number samples on the full range of dreyer 's ice cream products and $number samples on ice cream products of other brands had been tested since listeria monocytogenes were found in two samples of dreyer 's cookies ' n cream ice cream bar last week .
results showed that except for these two samples of dreyer 's vanilla & almond ice cream bar , all other samples tested were negative for listeria monocytogenes .
the spokesman said : " listeria monocytogenes is a kind of bacteria that may be present in the environment . it is more commonly associated with food such as soft cheese and ready - to - eat food .
the bacteria usually will not cause illness in most people .
" people infected with the bacteria may present with fever , nausea , vomiting and diarrhoea .
in more severe cases , it can cause infection of the brain and meningitis . the disease can also cause abortions in pregnant women .
" no reports of any persons being affected by listeria monocytogenes have been received so far . "
the spokesman said that dreyer 's manufacturer had already suspended production at its plant in dallas , texas , where all its ice cream bars imported to hong kong were produced .
the importer had also recalled all its ice cream bars on sale in hong kong .
there was no evidence to indicate that other dreyer 's products produced at other locations in the united states were affected , he added .
the spokesman said the department of health appreciated that the manufacturer and importer had taken prompt and responsible actions in facilitating the investigation and to voluntarily recall all related ice cream bars .
he said that the importer would be required to submit a full investigation report of the incident and to provide assurance of a quality control improvement system in the plant to the department 's satisfaction before its ice cream bars would be allowed to be imported to hong kong again .
the department of health would , for a period , hold and test for listeria monocytogenes of each and every future consignment of dreyer 's ice cream bars before they were released for sale .
public who may have purchased dreyer 's ice cream bars are advised to return them for refund or replacement according to arrangements made by the company .
sarg official to attend unhcr meeting the deputy secretary for security , ms sally wong , will leave for geneva later today ( saturday ) to attend the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) executive committee meeting in geneva to appeal to the international community to assist in a full solution to the vietnamese refugee problem in hong kong .
" as announced in the chief executive 's policy address , the sar government has undertaken to press the unhcr and the international community to work harder to arrange for the resettlement of the remaining $number refugees , and to continue to look after them while they remain here , " ms wong said .
the visit to geneva would be one concrete step in this direction , she said .
" we are committed to resolving the residual vietnamese refugees and migrants problem as soon as possible .
efforts will continue to be made to persuade the international community to assist in resolving the problem completely , " she said .
ms wong will be participating in the unhcr meeting as a member of the people 's republic of china delegation .
singing contest to promote anti - crime message members of the public aged between $number and $number are invited to help drive home the anti - crime message by participating in $number " glory of life " singing contest .
the event , organised by the yau tsim mong district fight crime committee , is aimed at giving children and young adults an opportunity to demonstrate their singing talents in a meaningful activity to help fight juvenile crime .
the preliminary heats and the semi - final competition will be held on $date and $date respectively at the henry g. leong community centre while the final competition will be held on $date at the hong kong cultural centre .
participation is free .
the top three and outstanding winners will each be awarded a trophy and other valuable prizes .
enrolment forms are now available at the public enquiry service counter of the yau tsim mong district office at ground floor , mong kok government offices , $number luen wan street , kowloon and the henry g. leong community centre at $number public square street , yau ma tei .
enquiries can be made on tel : $number $number .
$number quarter rates due on $date rates and / or government rent for $number quarter of this year are payable on or before $date this year , a spokesman for the rating and valuation department said today ( sunday ) .
if these demand notes have not been received , payers may bring along relevant demand notes for any previous quarter to any of the treasury collection offices listed above , where replacement demand notes may be obtained and payment can be conveniently made .
if there are no relevant demand notes for any previous quarter , payers may make inquiry by telephone ( $number $number ) or by fax ( $number $number ) .
they may also inquire in person at the accounting and billing division of the rating and valuation department , hennessy centre , $number floor , $number hennessy road , causeway bay , hong kong .
non - receipt of the demand note does not alter the requirement that the rates and / or government rent must be paid on or before $date and unless so paid , the amount payable may be subject to a surcharge of $number under the provisions of the above - mentioned ordinances .
a further surcharge of $number per cent may be levied on the outstanding amount ( including the $number surcharge ) which remains unpaid six months after the due date .
payers who recently submitted a valid direct debit authorisation should note that payment should still be made by other means as stipulated in the demand note unless the wording ' payment to be made by autopay ' is shown on the demand note in which case their payment of rates and / or government rent will be made by direct debit to their bank accounts on $date .
to avoid the possible inconvenience of queuing , payers are urged to settle payment using autopay under which payers ' bank accounts will only be debited on the due dates or using the payment by phone service (pps) .
application forms for autopay are obtainable from treasury collection offices , district offices and all major banks in hong kong or by telephoning $number $number .
for additional information regarding pps , please call $number $number $number .
parents urged to bring children for measles vaccination the department of health (dh) called on parents to bring their children between one and five years old to the department 's general out - patient clinics or maternal and children health centres for vaccination against measles before mid - $date .
to answer enquiries from parents , a special hotline ( tel : $number $number ) manned by medical personnel has been set up by the department 's central health education unit .
a spokesman for dh said that since vaccination for children between one and five started in $date , $number children of this age group have been covered , representing $number per cent of this age group .
although most children in hong kong had received their $number dose of measles vaccine at one year old , a $number dose would enhance their immunity , the spokesman said .
children can receive their $number dose of measles vaccine four weeks after $number one , he added . the spokesman pointed out that the current special measles vaccination campaign aimed at preventing a predicted measles outbreak in hong kong next year .
in the meantime , medical staff have been visiting primary schools to vaccinate children between six and $number . some $number pupils have been covered , representing $number per cent of this age group .
the spokesman also noted that a total of $number young people between $number and $number years old had come forward for vaccination during the summer , representing $number per cent of the people in this age group .
however , those who have missed this phase for personal reasons can still go to any general out - patient clinics or maternal and children centres for vaccination before $date .
illegal waste returned to australia the environmental protection department (epd) today ( monday ) announced that the three containers of potentially hazardous waste , which arrived in hong kong last month from australia without a permit , are being returned to the country of export .
the return of the waste to sydney has been agreed with the australia authority , and epd will continue to liaise with them on the investigation and enforcement action of any further illegal waste shipments , an epd spokesman said .
the three containers of computer scrap were detained on $date , and epd officers found some potentially hazardous electrical components which are subject to control under the waste disposal ordinance (wdo) .
" a significant quantity of scrap computer monitors containing cathode ray tubes were found in the containers .
as cathode ray tubes are potentially hazardous , transshipment of such waste through hong kong requires a permit issued by epd .
" since no permit has been sought or issued in this case , enforcement action will be taken against the importer and the illegal waste must be returned to the country of export " , he said .
the spokesman explained that computer scrap , such as printed circuit boards , cable , metal or plastic frames , is not classified as hazardous waste internationally and such waste can be recycled to aid resource conservation .
however , cathode ray tubes are potentially hazardous and are classified as controlled waste under both local legislation and the basel convention , an international agreement on the control of transboundary movement of hazardous wastes and their disposal .
under the wdo , any person who imports , exports or arranges the transshipment of hazardous or non - recyclable waste in hong kong without a permit issued by epd will be liable to a maximum fine of $ $number and six months ' imprisonment upon $number conviction .
hong kong 's legislation fully complies with the spirit and requirements of the basel convention , which requires prior notification on the movement of controlled waste to be given by the exporting authority to the importing authority , the spokesman said .
putonghua teacher training programme commissioned hong kong will get $number additional putonghua teachers under a three - year programme just commissioned by the education department .
a spokesman for the department said the university of hong kong and the hong kong baptist university would run $number - hour courses to train up the additional putonghua teachers in the $number academic year .
it was announced in the $number policy address and supported by education commission report $number that a new putonghua curriculum will be introduced at primary and secondary levels $date , and that putonghua will be included in the hong kong certificate of education examination as an independent subject in year $number .
the new putonghua syllabuses produced by the curriculum development council for primary and secondary levels were endorsed in $date and will be introduced from p1 , s1 and s4 levels in $date .
the new syllabuses were issued to schools in $date and educational publishers have been invited to prepare textbooks .
" to support the implementation of the new putonghua curriculum , the department planned to train $number additional putonghua teachers in three years starting from the $number academic year by commissioning the training courses to tertiary institutions , " the spokesman said .
" nine tertiary institutions were invited to submit tenders in $date and six of them responded . "
on the recommendation of the central tender board , it was approved in $date that the offers of the following two institutions be accepted : * hong kong baptist university ( school of continuing education ) to organise $number courses for $number in - service primary school teachers ; * the university of hong kong ( faculty of education ) to organise $number courses for $number in - service secondary school teachers .
course content will comprise the studies of proficiency in putonghua and methodology of putonghua teaching . through various learning activities , teacher participants will be helped to develop their putonghua language skills in listening , speaking , reading aloud and the use of related teaching strategies .
contact hours of the course will be $number .
the courses will take place outside school hours in centres located on hong kong island , kowloon and the new territories for the convenience of teachers .
courses are expected to commence in $date or $date and end in $date or $date , the spokesman said .
certificates will be awarded by respective tertiary institution to course participants who have successfully completed the course and passed the exit examination .
schools have been invited to nominate teachers to apply for the courses .
there were $number applications for the $number places .
it is estimated that the department will spend about $ $number on the training of additional putonghua teachers $date / $number , with about $ $number for primary and $ $number for secondary schools .
new shareholders join hong kong note printing limited the hong kong monetary authority announced today ( monday ) that the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , has entered into agreement with the three note - issuing banks ( nibs ) , namely bank of china , the hongkong and shanghai banking corporation limited and standard chartered bank , to sell $number shares , or $number per cent of the issued shares , of hong kong note printing limited (hknpl) to each of the three nibs .
hknpl , which operates a banknote printing plant in tai po , was acquired by the hong kong government through the exchange fund in $date and its main line of business is the printing of hong kong dollar banknotes .
in $date this year , the china banknote printing and minting corporation (cbpmc) purchased $number per cent of the shares in hknpl and became a minority shareholder of the company .
" i welcome the three nibs becoming minority shareholders of hknpl .
given their role and interest in the issuance of banknotes in hong kong , the nibs ' participation will widen and strengthen further the shareholder base of hknpl and contribute to the future success and development of the company .
i would nevertheless like to emphasise that it remains the sar government 's intention to retain a majority shareholding in and management control of hknpl , " the financial secretary said .
following the sale of shares to cbpmc and the three nibs , the government maintains a $number per cent stake in hknpl .
according to the terms of the sale , each of the three nibs will be entitled to nominate a director for appointment to the board of hknpl .
" i am sure that the nibs ' participation on the board of hknpl will enhance the management capability of the company . it will also put the hknpl in a stronger position to explore future business opportunities in the field of security printing , " said mr joseph yam , chairman of hknpl .
hong kong to celebrate world standards day hong kong will be joining many places around the world in celebrating the $number world standards day tomorrow ( tuesday ) .
the world standards day is celebrated on $date every year by members of the international organisation for standardisation (iso) and the international electrotechnical commission (iec) , which are major organisations involved in developing international standards .
" the world standards day provides an annual focal point that pays tribute to the collaborative efforts of $number experts involved in the preparation of international standards , " a spokesman for the industry department said .
the theme of the $number world standards day is " world trade needs worldwide standards " .
" this is $number time the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) celebrates the world standards day after hong kong reverted to chinese sovereignty .
the hksar government will continue its support of adoption and use of international standards , " the spokesman said .
the government 's support was indicated in the formulation of legislation , he noted .
" the electrical products ( safety ) regulation , enacted in $date , required domestic electrical appliances to comply with relevant international electrotechnical commission (iec) standards .
" the toys and children 's products safety ordinance ( amendment of schedule ) notice $number was gazetted in $date adopting additional safety standards for specific children 's products .
the safety specifications include those of the iso . "
" on the international front , the industry department involves itself in major international / regional organisations relating to standards and conformance issues , " the spokesman said .
" the department has been actively participating in the asia - pacific economic co - operation (apec) in the areas on standards and conformance .
one of the major activities pursued is the alignment of standards with international standards , " he said .
the department also attends meetings of the pacific area standards congress , which is a regional forum for the exchange of information and views regarding international standardisation activities , the spokesman added .
three pre - sale consents issued in $date the lands department issued pre - sale consents for a residential development with $number units and two commercial developments last month ( $date ) .
the commercial units are located in tai kok tsui and central . their estimated completion dates are $date and $date respectively . the residential units in tai po were due for completion in late $date .
meanwhile , a consent to assign was issued to a residential development in tuen mun .
at the end of $date , $number applications for pre - sale consents involving $number residential units , and $number applications in respect of commercial developments and other uses , were pending approval .
these developments are located in various parts of the territory . the completion date will be $date at the latest .
moreover , two applications for consent to assign involving commercial units in central and north point are being processed .
employment and vacancy statistics for $date released according to the figures released today ( monday ) by the census and statistics department , employment in most of the major service sectors continued to increase in $date over a year earlier .
employment at construction sites also registered a further significant year - on - year increase .
on the other hand , employment in the manufacturing sector remained on a downtrend .
in $date , vacancies in the manufacturing sector and all major service sectors increased markedly over $date .
these increases were consistent with the steady growth in economic activity , though partly also attributable to a relatively low base of comparison in $date .
however , vacancies at construction sites registered a substantial decrease as work on the airport core programme began to wind down .
taking all the major sectors surveyed together , there were around $number vacancies in $date , up $number from the number recorded in $date .
in terms of the number of persons engaged , the wholesale , retail and import / export trades , restaurants and hotels sector was the largest , employing $number persons in $date . this was followed by the financing , insurance , real estate and business services sector , with an employment of $number ; the manufacturing sector , $number ; the community , social and personal services sector , $number ; and the transport , storage and communications sector , $number .
also , there were $number manual workers at construction sites .
in terms of change from a year earlier , employment of manual workers at construction sites showed the most significant increase , by $number in $date .
this was followed by employment in the financing , insurance , real estate and business services sector , increasing by $number ; the transport , storage and communications sector , by $number ; and the community , social and personal services sector , by $number .
on the other hand , employment in the manufacturing sector and the wholesale , retail and import / export trades , restaurants and hotels sector fell by $number and $number respectively .
the respective employment figures are shown in greater detail in table $number .
as regards the vacancy situation in individual sectors , the wholesale , retail and import / export trades , restaurants and hotels sector had the largest number of vacancies , with $number in $date .
this was followed by the financing , insurance , real estate and business services sector , at $number ; the community , social and personal services sector , $number ; the manufacturing sector , $number ; and the transport , storage and communications sector , $number . also , there were $number vacancies for manual workers at construction sites .
in terms of change from a year earlier , vacancies in the manufacturing sector recorded a substantial increase of $number in $date .
this was followed by vacancies in the financing , insurance , real estate and business services sector , increasing by $number ; the transport , storage and communications sector , by $number ; , the community , social and personal services sector , by $number ; and the wholesale , retail and import / export trades , restaurants and hotels sector , by $number .
vacancies for manual workers at construction sites , on the other hand , fell substantially , by $number .
job vacancy figures for selected major industry sectors are shown in table $number .
of the total of some $number vacancies ( other than those in the civil service ) recorded in $date , the majority fell into four major occupation groups , namely , associate professionals ; clerks ; service workers and shop sales workers ; and elementary occupations .
they together accounted for about three - quarters of the total number of vacancies in all the major sectors surveyed .
in $date , vacancies in most of the major occupation groups continued to show significant increases over a year earlier .
amongst them , vacancies in the associate professionals category showed the largest increase , by $number .
this was followed by vacancies in the plant and machine operators and assemblers category , by $number ; the craft and related workers category , by $number ; the elementary occupations category , by $number ; the professionals category , by $number ; the clerks category , by $number ; and the service workers and shop sales workers category , by $number .
vacancies in the managerial and administrative occupation category however fell by $number .
job vacancy figures broken down by major occupation group are shown in table $number .
the above statistics for $date were derived from the quarterly survey of employment and vacancies , the supplementary survey of job vacancies and the quarterly employment survey of construction sites conducted by the department .
in the former two surveys , some economic activities ( e.g. those where self - employment is predominant , such as taxi operators , hawkers and freelance authors ) are not covered and hence the respective employment and vacancy figures relate only to those selected industries included in the surveys .
in the latter survey on construction sites , employment and vacancy figures relate to manual workers only .
detailed breakdowns of the above statistics are available from the quarterly report of employment , vacancies and payroll statistics , $date and the quarterly report of employment and vacancies at construction sites , $date .
they will be available at $ $number per copy and $ $number per copy ( both exclusive of postage ) respectively at the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong and at the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
orders invited for $number new stamp issues the local standing order service for ordering new stamp issues $date will be opened for application from wednesday ( $date ) to $date , the postmaster general , mr robert footman , said today ( monday ) .
customers may make their orders at any post office or apply through the mail , with payment made by credit card or cheque .
" in response to customer feedback over the past year , we will introduce a number of improvements , including option for payment by installment , option for door delivery of small orders instead of collection at post office counters , option for ordering varying quantities of philatelic items in each category and increased range of products to be ordered , " mr footman said .
" to reward customers ' loyalty , exiting customers renewing their orders for $number will be offered a free pocket diary . "
he added that the revised local standing order service aimed to provide more options for customers and avoid them queuing at post office for new stamp issues .
" next year is also a good opportunity for collectors to start building up their new hong kong special administration region stamp - collection , " he said .
government to appeal against court ruling the sar government will lodge an appeal against the ruling of the court of $number instance on the definition of the relationship between parent and child in schedule $number to the immigration ( amendment ) ( no $number ) ordinance $number , an sar government spokesman said today ( tuesday ) .
the court has ruled that it is illegal to deny the right of abode to children who rely on their fathers ' status as permanent residents of the hksar simply because they were born out of wedlock .
" after seeking legal advice , we have decided to lodge an appeal on this point , " the spokesman said .
statement on ecvii court ruling in response to media enquiries in connection with a court of appeal 's ruling to uphold an earlier order by the court of $number instance that $number ex - china vietnamese illegal immigrant (ecvii) applicants for habeas corpus should be released , an sar government spokesman made the following statement : " we are arranging for the release of the remaining $number ecvii applicants and their family members in compliance with the court ruling by mr justice keith on $date .
" altogether a total of $number ecviis will be moved from high island detention centre to the new horizon camp within today . "
the spokesman confirmed that the government had lodged notices of appeal in respect of mr justice keith 's judgements handed down on $date and $date respectively ordering the release of seven ecvii " test " applicants and the remaining $number applicants .
" as the ecviis had already been properly settled in mainland china , we consider that they should be removed thereto .
their release from detention does not imply that they are not subject to removal to mainland china .
" moreover , we will review the legislation to see whether there is any need for amendment in the light of the court judgement , " the spokesman said .
two lots sold for $ $number at land auction two government lots were sold for a total of $ $number at a public auction held by the lands department this ( tuesday ) afternoon .
$number lot , at area $number , tai po , and with an area of $number square metres , was sold to wealth team development limited for $ $number , with bidding opened at $ $number .
the developer has to complete a gross floor area of not less than $number square metres on or before $date .
the lot is intended for private residential use , excluding service apartments .
$number lot , at the junction of hang kwai street and hang fu street , area $number , tuen mun , has an area of $number square metres .
the developer has to complete a gross floor area of not less than $number square metres on or before $date .
$number lot at kowloon bay was withdrawn because the bidder could not produce the required deposit .
under general condition no.6 of the condition of sale , the lot was thus withdrawn . it will be put up for auction at the earliest opportunity .
the auction was conducted by government land agent , mr francis ng hang kwong , in the concert hall of the hong kong cultural centre , tsim sha tsui .
speaking at the $number anniversary dinner of cable and wireless plc this ( tuesday ) evening , mr tsang said hong kong had had a long history of facing up to challenges and embracing new technology .
" from a policy perspective , the way hong kong is connected to the rest of the world is a serious matter indeed , " the financial secretary said .
" as we cross the threshold of the brave new world of the information age , the government has come to place even more consideration on these issues .
" questions arise at a very basic level : for example , what role do we wish hong kong as an economy to play in future ?
how can we best manage the transition of our community to an information society ?
how can we assist our country , china , in considering these issues ? "
" the more questions we ask the more that arise , " mr tsang said .
emphasising the government 's determination to place priority on addressing these questions , mr tsang said : " last week , our chief executive , mr tung , expressed a vision of hong kong assuming a leadership position in the information industries .
" he also outlined the fact that we will take a holistic approach by designating one policy secretary to co - ordinate all the government 's work on these issue .
" furthermore , this policy secretary will be tasked with producing a thorough and well considered plan of action to serve as a blueprint as we go forward . "
mr tsang said he believed that the role of the government in this work was one of leadership , which must facilitate the following : * the establishment of an open common interface information infrastructure ; * the laying down of an appropriate regulatory framework to remove obstacles to interconnection ; * the development of a policy for promoting it applications ( including the development of computer literacy and enhancing skill training for it professionals ) ; and * the commissioning of pilot projects which make innovative use of the developing infrastructure .
mr tsang said : " the institutional framework within government to facilitate this is now being finalised and our preliminary thoughts on how to proceed are forming quickly .
" we hope to provide details in the near future . "
he reiterated that the significance of an information society went way beyond telecommunications companies to the whole range of service industries which together comprised $number per cent of hong kong 's gdp and for which telecommunications was a vital underpinning .
" the developments in the information industries are likely to change the very way in which mankind lives and works and the way business , trade and commerce is conducted globally , " mr tsang concluded .
clarification of misreporting some news reports in the chinese media today ( tuesday ) commented that the secretary for justice was at variance with the secretary for home affairs over the law which covered the police action against the display of flags on $date , with the secretary for justice saying it was the public order ordinance and the secretary for home affairs the crown land ordinance .
a spokesman for the department of justice pointed out that in her response to a reporter 's question yesterday , it was clear that the secretary for justice was commenting on the applicability of the law in relation to the holding of a flag by a member of the public in a public gathering , and other press reports today correctly reported this .
what the secretary for home affairs referred to was the display of flags erected on government land .
sex discrimination ordinance to be clarified the executive council today ( tuesday ) gave approval for the introduction of the sex discrimination ( amendment ) bill $number into the provisional legislative council .
to be gazetted this friday , the bill aims to clarify beyond doubt that the commencement date for the application of anti - discrimination requirements in the sex discrimination ordinance (sdo) relating to death and retirement provision shall be $date and not retrospectively from $date .
explaining the background for these amendments , a government spokesman said : " the sex and disability discrimination ( miscellaneous provisions ) ordinance ( mp ordinance ) , which was a member 's bill , was enacted in $date .
sections $number , $number & $number of the mp ordinance shall repeal and replace sections $number ( $number ) , $number ( $number ) and $number ( $number ) of the sdo respectively on $date .
" the effect of these new sections is to give exemption from certain anti - discrimination requirements to death and retirement provision made for a woman before the commencement of these sections in so far as that death and retirement provision continues on and after that commencement .
" when the mp ordinance was enacted , it was the government 's and the legislature 's intention that the reference to 'the commencement of this section ' in those sections was meant to be a reference to the commencement of sections $number , $number and $number of the mp ordinance ( $date ) , and not the commencement of the original sections $number , $number and $number of the sdo on $date .
as a result , the anti - discrimination requirements may be interpreted as applying to retirement scheme terms with retrospective effect from $date .
" retrospective application of the anti - discrimination requirements to retirement scheme provisions is certainly undesirable as it would cause great difficulties and administrative costs to relevant employers of schemes .
this also runs contrary to the government 's and the legislature 's intention of having $date as the commencement date for the application of the new requirements .
" in order to remove the ambiguity in the wording of the new sections $number , $number and $number of the sdo , and to avoid any unintended interpretation of their commencement date , it is therefore proposed that these sections be amended to clarify that the reference to 'the commencement of this section ' in those sections means $date . "
no e. coli o157 : h7 detected in beef the department of health confirmed today ( tuesday ) that no e. coli o157 : h7 bacteria were detected in beef imported recently into hong kong from ibp slaughterhouse in dakota city , nebraska , usa .
a spokesman for the department said $number samples of beef originated from the ibp slaughterhouse had been taken for testing as a precautionary measure , following media reports which said that the bacteria were found in a consignment of beef exported from usa to another country .
the $number samples tested were found to be free of e. coli o157 : h7 .
local importers and retailers were now advised that they could resume the sale of beef from the ibp slaughterhouse , he said .
the spokesman noted that in the interest of public health , importers and retailers had been very co - operative in withholding the sale of the products before laboratory results were available .
he also pointed out that it is a legal requirement for beef imported from usa into hong kong to be accompanied by an official health certificate issued by the competent authority of the country certifying that the product is safe for human consumption .
nonetheless , members of the public are advised to cook beef thoroughly before consumption .
he added that e. coli o157 : h7 is easily killed by cooking at a temperature of $number degrees celsius for two to three minutes .
new initiatives to further simplify regulatory systems the trade department is working on further initiatives to make the textiles trade 's regulatory environment more business - friendly , deputy director - general of trade , mr stanley ying said today ( tuesday ) .
speaking at a trade seminar organised by the standard chartered bank , mr ying said the government 's regulatory requirements did have effects on the competitiveness of hong kong 's textiles industry .
" on the one hand , it takes the trade time and resources to comply with the requirements . on the other hand , by maintaining a credible regulatory system , we help the trade to maintain their credibility with overseas buyers , and maintain overseas buyers ' confidence in our products .
" our task is to strike a balance , to maximise the benefits of regulation and minimise the costs of compliance .
" there are four main directions in our work to make the regulatory environment more business - friendly for the textiles trade , " mr ying said .
" $number , we are reviewing our systems and procedures to minimise our costs in administering these systems and thereby minimise fees for the trade when using our licensing and certification services .
" secondly , we have been simplifying or rationalising procedures that traders have to go through under the systems , " he said .
" as an example of the new initiatives we are working on , we have formulated some ideas to make some of the quota schemes less complex for the trade , and i hope we can announce the changes before the new textiles year begin on $date .
" we are also working on ways to simplify the procedures in connection with the production notification , " mr ying added .
" $number direction is to make use of information technology to provide more efficient , easier interface between traders and the government . "
he noted that the trade department 's homepage in the internet provided a very efficient and inexpensive channel for the trade to access information on the regulatory system ( address : http://www.info.gov.hk/trade ) .
" the introduction of electronic data interchange (edi) services by the tradelink electronic document services limited , of which the government is a key shareholder , allows a more efficient and easier way for trades to interact with government departments , " he said .
currently , traders can make enquiries about their quota balance through edi . traders can also electronically process applications for export licence for markets requiring quotas , or import and export declarations .
traders will be able to use the edi for more and more trade documents , including the carrier notification , the hong kong certificate of origin , the production notification , the cargo manifest , etc , " mr ying said .
" $number direction in our work to make our regulatory regime more business - friendly is our participation in the world trade organisation ( wto ) .
" hong kong participates very actively in wto 's work to harmonise origin rules for all products , including textiles products .
in doing so our aim is for wto to agree on a set of common rules that are in the best interests of hong kong .
" hong kong also works very hard in the wto to ensure that importing wto members will comply strictly with the programme to remove all quotas $date under the agreement on textiles and clothing , " mr ying said .
two more easy access buses for disabled persons in sha tin two easy access buses will be deployed in kowloon motor bus (kmb) route 8 6 k running between kam ying court and sha tin kcr station from thursday ( $date ) .
to cater for the transport needs of disabled persons , these air - conditioned single decker buses are equipped with low floor , accessible ramps and wheel chair places , a spokesman for transport department said today ( tuesday ) .
the fare will be $ $number per single journey .
" easy access buses are also serving in kmb route 8 8 k and citybus routes $number and $number .
" they will also be available to kmb routes 1 a and 6 0 m soon to improve public bus service for people with a disability for commuting convenience , " the spokesman said .
$date external trade statistics by country and commodity in $date , the value of re - exports increased by $number over a year earlier to $ $number , while that of domestic exports increased by $number to $ $number .
meanwhile , imports increased by $number to $ $number .
the census and statistics department today ( tuesday ) released detailed statistics on external trade with breakdown by country / territory and commodity for $date .
comparing $date with $date , increases were recorded in the value of re - exports to taiwan ( $number ) , the united kingdom ( $number ) , the netherlands ( $number ) , singapore ( $number ) , france ( $number ) , the mainland of china ( the mainland ) ( $number ) and the united states ( $number ) .
however , decreases were recorded in the value of re - exports to japan ( $number ) , germany ( $number ) and south korea ( $number ) .
comparing $number eight months of $number with the same period $date , increases were recorded in the value of re - exports to taiwan ( $number ) , the netherlands ( $number ) , the united states ( $number ) , singapore ( $number ) , the united kingdom ( $number ) , the mainland ( $number ) and france ( $number ) .
however , decreases were recorded in the value of re - exports to germany ( $number ) , south korea ( $number ) and japan ( $number ) .
taking all destinations together , the value of re - exports in $number eight months of $number , at $ $number , increased by $number over the same period $date .
over the same period , a decrease in the value of re - exports was registered for telecommunications and sound recording and reproducing apparatus and equipment ( by $ $number or $number ) .
comparing $date with $date , increases were recorded in the value of domestic exports to canada ( $number ) , taiwan ( $number ) , the united states ( $number ) , the mainland ( $number ) , the united kingdom ( $number ) and the netherlands ( $number ) .
however , decreases were recorded in the value of domestic exports to france ( $number ) , japan ( $number ) , germany ( $number ) and singapore ( $number ) .
comparing $number eight months of $number with the same period $date , decreases were recorded in the value of domestic exports to singapore ( $number ) , japan ( $number ) , germany ( $number ) , taiwan ( $number ) , the united kingdom ( $number ) , the united states ( $number ) and canada ( $number ) .
however , increases were recorded in the value of domestic exports to france ( $number ) , the netherlands ( $number ) and the mainland ( $number ) .
taking all destinations together , the value of domestic exports in $number eight months of $number , at $ $number , decreased by $number over the same period $date .
over the same period , more notable increases in the value of domestic exports were registered for electrical machinery , apparatus and appliances , and electrical parts thereof ( by $ $number or $number ) ; and professional , scientific and controlling instruments and apparatus ( by $ $number or $number ) .
comparing $date with $date , the value of imports from most main suppliers showed increases of various magnitudes : japan ( $number ) , germany ( $number ) , malaysia ( $number ) , italy ( $number ) , the united kingdom ( $number ) , south korea ( $number ) , the mainland ( $number ) , taiwan ( $number ) and singapore ( $number ) .
however , the value of imports from the united states decreased by $number .
comparing $number eight months of $number with the same period $date , increases were recorded in the value of imports from malaysia ( $number ) , the united kingdom ( $number ) , germany ( $number ) , japan ( $number ) , the mainland ( $number ) , the united states ( $number ) , italy ( $number ) and south korea ( $number ) .
however , the value of imports from singapore and taiwan decreased by $number and $number respectively .
taking all sources together , the value of imports in $number eight months of $number , at $ $number , increased by $number over the same period $date .
over the same period , a decrease in the value of imports was recorded for photographic apparatus , equipment and supplies , optical goods , watches and clocks ( by $ $number or $number ) .
all the trade statistics described here are measured at current prices and no account has been taken of changes in prices between the periods of comparison .
a separate analysis of the volume and price movements of external trade for $date will be released in early $date .
detailed trade statistics analysed by commodity and by country / territory are published in trade statistics reports .
the $date issue of the " hong kong external trade " with detailed analyses on the performance of hong kong 's external trade in $date will be on sale at $ $number per copy around $date .
the report can be purchased at either the government publications centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong , or the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
enquiries regarding regular subscription to this report may be directed to the publications ( sales ) office of the information services department , $number floor , siu on centre , $number lockhart road , wan chai , hong kong ( tel no. $number $number ) and enquiries on trade statistics to the census and statistics department on $number $number .
$number quarter service industries business receipts indices business receipts in most service industries showed year - on - year increases of various magnitudes in value terms in $number quarter of $number .
comparing $number quarter of $number with the same quarter a year earlier , the value of business receipts in the financing ( except banking ) industry registered the fastest growth , by $number .
this was followed by those in the real estate and the communications industries , which grew by $number and $number respectively .
these are the provisional figures on the $number - based business receipts indices for service industries released today ( tuesday ) by the census and statistics department .
the robust increase in business receipts in the financing ( except banking ) industry was due to significantly higher stock market turnover and strong performance of the capital market in $number quarter of $number .
reflecting this , within the financing ( except banking ) industry , the financial market and fund management sector recorded triple - digit growth of $number in business receipts .
the strong growth in business receipts in the real estate industry in $number quarter of $number was attributable to the buoyancy in the property market .
the surge in business receipts in the communications industry was attributable to the rapid expansion of the telecommunications industry .
along with the significant increase in the number of customers demanding public mobile radiotelephone services , business receipts of the telecommunications industry continued to go up , by $number .
meanwhile , considerable increases in business receipts were also registered in the banking ( $number ) , insurance ( $number ) , business services ( $number ) and restaurants ( $number ) industries .
as regards the storage industry , business receipts dropped slightly by $number in value terms .
the wholesale industry also recorded a small decrease of $number in business receipts .
as for the business receipts of the service domains , those of the tourism , convention and exhibition services domain were $number lower than the same quarter a year ago , along with a considerable decrease in tourism receipts .
by contrast , those of the computer and related services domain recorded an increase of $number , which was mainly attributable to an improvement in business of trading of computer equipment .
compared with $number quarter of $number , and bearing in mind that this comparison might be affected by seasonal factors , increases in business receipts were recorded in most service industries .
a major source of data used for compiling the business receipts indices is a quarterly survey of service industries (qssi) launched by the census and statistics department $date .
regarding the tourism , convention and exhibition services domain , part of the data is obtained from the hong kong tourist association .
a service domain differs from a service industry in that a domain comprises those parts of economic activities straddling different industries but somehow related to a common purpose .
it may include all activities carried out by all establishments in a service industry that is closely related to the domain .
in some other cases , however , only a portion of the establishments in an industry or even only part of the establishments ' activities are related to the domain .
tourism is a good example .
it includes all activities of travel agents ; and some ( those involving visitors as customers ) but not all of the activities of restaurants , retailers and transport operators .
details on the compilation method of the business receipts indices are given in the report " quarterly business receipts indices for service industries , $number quarter $number " , which is now on sale at $ $number per copy at the government publications centre of the information services department , queensway government offices , low block , ground floor , $number queensway , hong kong .
it can also be purchased from the publications unit of the census and statistics department , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
enquiries about the survey results may be directed to the business services statistics section of the census and statistics department on $number $number .
a bridge between trade department and customers the trade department 's customer liaison group (clg) is successful in playing the role as a bridge between the department and its customers .
this was stated by the chairman of the clg , mr jay leung , when he addressed the last meeting of the clg $number this ( tuesday ) afternoon .
he said the current clg had held discussions on a wide range of subjects in response to the department 's helping business programmes and made suggestions on new measures and services to facilitate traders .
" the trade department has attached importance to the clg 's opinion and some of our suggestions have been accepted and implemented by the department , " he said .
mr leung thanked members of the clg for their support and called on traders to support the clg by continuing to provide , from the service users ' point of view , constructive ideas and suggestions to improve the various services provided by the department .
prior to the meeting , members of the clg , accompanied by the assistant director - general of trade , mr edward yau , visited the asia and americas ( textiles controls ) branch where they were briefed on the licensing services provided to the trading community .
the clg was set up $date with a view to further enhancing the department 's services . it is to serve as an additional channel of communication between the department and its customers and to provide a forum for them to exchange views on the services in a relaxed setting .
it aims at soliciting members ' ideas on improvements of the department 's services to facilitate planning and implementations . it also helps to build up a cordial customer relationship and to enhance customers ' understanding of the department 's operation and services .
employment exhibition draws $number visitors more than $number people visited the " employment information post " exhibition at shatin town hall today ( tuesday ) .
a total of $number employers from different trades participated in the exhibition providing $number vacancies for job seekers .
the event is jointly organised by the labour department , the employees retraining board and six prominent employers associations .
govt minute on the ombudsman 's $number annual report following is a statement by the chief secretary for administration , mrs anson chan , when presenting the government minute in response to the ombudsman 's $number annual report at the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : madam president , when the ombudsman 's $number annual report was presented to the former legislative council on $date , the administration undertook to prepare a government minute in response to the recommendations made by the ombudsman in relation to the cases listed in annexes $number and $number of the report .
this government minute is tabled today .
the government minute covers all the complaint cases which the ombudsman investigated and has made recommendations on , as well as three direct investigation cases initiated by him in late $number and $number .
in the majority of these cases , the bureaux and departments involved have accepted and acted upon all of the ombudsman 's recommendations .
there are a few cases in which some of the ombudsman 's recommended measures have had to be modified because of operational constraints . the reasons for such modifications are set out in the minute .
members will note that the government minute also includes the judiciary and two public bodies , namely the hospital authority and the mass transit railway corporation .
although they are not part of the administration , they recognise their accountability to the public and have provided us with information relating to their follow - up actions in respect of the ombudsman 's recommendations .
we share with members of the community the aspirations for an open government , and we recognise the contribution of the ombudsman in this respect .
legislative amendments were enacted in $date to bring about further improvements to the operation of this institution and to expand its jurisdiction to cover the police force and the independent commission against corruption for complaints about breaches of the code on access to information .
we in the administration will continue our efforts in facilitating the work of the ombudsman . we will also do our best to ensure that a harmonious working relationship is maintained between the office of the ombudsman and the public bodies under its jurisdiction .
should any member of this council wish to have further clarification on any point in the government minute , the administration would be happy to provide it .
registered trustees incorporation ordinance following is a speech by the secretary for financial services , mr rafael hui , in moving the motion on registered trustees incorporation ordinance ( amendment of $number schedule ) order $number , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : madam president , i move $number motion standing in my name on the order paper .
the fees included in this order are in relation to inspection , certification and registration of documents payable to the registrar of companies under the registered trustees incorporation ordinance .
the extent and reasons for the proposed revision are identical to those as i have just outlined in moving $number motion .
thank you .
companies ( fees & percentages ) ( amendment ) ( no.2 ) order $number following is a speech by the secretary for financial services , mr rafael hui , in moving the motion on companies ( fees and percentages ) ( amendment ) ( no.2 ) order $number , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : madam president , i move $number motion standing in my name on the order paper .
the companies ( fees and percentages ) ( amendment ) ( no.2 ) order $number has been made by the chief justice . it increases three fee items payable to the registrar of companies in relation to the inspection and photocopying of liquidators ' statements sent to the registrar under the companies ordinance .
the fees contained in the order were last revised in $date .
we propose to revise the fees on average by $number per cent in line with increase in costs due to inflation as measured by the movement of the government consumption expenditure deflator (gced) .
as a trading fund , the companies registry is required to provide an efficient and effective service while meeting the costs of the services that it provides from the income it receives .
since its establishment as a trading fund in $date , the registry is continuously seeking to improve service quality and efficiency .
among the measures instituted so far are : introducing on - line receipt of documents , providing $number computer terminals showing indices of documents held by the registry , all the directorships held by directors of listed companies and disqualification orders in respect of directors disqualified by the courts , organising regular customer visits , conducting surveys and questionnaires to ascertain customer needs , setting up customer service desks and a touch - screen information system , as well as organizational restructuring to reduce costs and to streamline office procedures .
currently , the registry is working on development projects which will further enhance the efficiency in making searches for company records by customers .
if the present fee levels are maintained , the companies registry in general terms will suffer an annualised financial loss of $ $number $date $number .
this will increase the difficulties in funding the development projects as outlined above and will reduce the rate of return of the trading fund to below the targeted $number per cent .
the fee adjustments are therefore essential for the continual effective operation of the registry and the financial health of the trading fund .
thank you .
meanwhile , among $number fresh graduates of full - time degree and diploma courses in social work , $number per cent are still unable to obtain employment .
reply : madam president , (a) according to statistics recently obtained from the tertiary institutions , there are $number and $number full time social work degree and diploma graduates $date .
on the basis of the information available from the tertiary institutions so far , it does appear that not all graduates have been able to secure employment at this point in time .
there are however many factors which affect employment , such as when students want to start work , whether they wish to remain in the social work field , when non - governmental organisations need to recruit staff etc. for its part , the government examines the employment situation of fresh social work graduates every year as part of the manpower projection exercise together with the tertiary institutions and the hong kong council of social service .
(b) i would briefly outline how we arrive at manpower forecasts for this sector .
projections on the supply of , and demand for , social workers are updated every year taking into account information collected from social welfare department , organisations employing social workers and the tertiary institutions .
the manpower projection exercise involves many variables .
the annual supply is calculated by aggregating the current strength of social workers and the number of graduates for the year , taking account of the number of non - entrants .
demand is estimated on the basis of funds available for approved projects , and replacement for wastage .
factors such as the wastage and non - entry rates , the attractiveness of other jobs in the market and the general economic situation , are relevant .
for example , actual wastage rates have dropped to relatively low levels in recent years .
for the social work officer grade , the rate has fallen from $number per cent $date / $number per cent $date / $number .
an increase in the number of overseas returnees may have further complicated the situation .
factors such as these may account for differences between the projected and actual manpower situation .
as regards the demand for social workers , we have , over the past few years continued to increase the resources allocated to the welfare sector .
we are spending over $ $number , in terms of recurrent funding , on welfare services $date / $number . this represents real growth of $number per cent compared with the previous year .
of this , funding spent on direct service has increased from $number $date / $number to $number $date / $number .
the university grants committee ( ugc ) - funded institutions basically follow a triennial planning cycle to coincide with the recurrent grant allocation exercise .
the ugc is currently reviewing the institutions ' academic proposals for the $number triennium .
we are liaising closely with the education and manpower bureau and the ugc to work out a plan for the coming triennium to match supply and demand in the social work discipline .
(c) the social welfare department has not received any complaints of discrimination on grounds of religious belief .
however , the department always acts on the receipt of complaints and investigates the matter with the assistance of the relevant non - governmental organisations .
(d) the social welfare department will request non - governmental organisations to publicise their social work post vacancies through a variety of channels including placing recruitment advertisements through the labour department , the appointment offices of tertiary institutions and by placing advertisements in newspapers .
traffic arrangements during wb / imf meetings following is a question by the hon wong siu - yee and a reply by the secretary for transport , mr nicholas ng , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : during the world bank and international monetary fund annual meetings held in hong kong , the departments concerned made a series of traffic re - directions which resulted in traffic chaos .
take $date as an example , traffic in the central district and the surrounding area came to a standstill for almost the entire day .
in this connection , will the government inform this council : (a) whether any review has been undertaken to determine the propriety of the traffic arrangements made by the departments concerned during that period ; if so , what the findings are ; and (b) whether the departments concerned have learned any lessons from the traffic arrangements on this occasion , so that similar traffic chaos will not recur when big international events take place in future on non - public holidays in hong kong ; if so , what the details are ?
reply : madam president , there were some $number participants and visitors during the world bank / imf annual meetings which were held from $date to $number , $number at the hong kong convention and exhibition centre .
in view of the scale of the event , special traffic arrangements were introduced in wan chai north to facilitate traffic into and out of the meeting venue .
the key elements were as follows : (a) introduction of a one - way clockwise gyratory road system involving harbour road , convention avenue and fleming road to facilitate convenient access to and exit from the hong kong convention and exhibition centre ; (b) prohibition of all traffic except buses and taxis in the northbound direction of fleming road flyover to reduce the traffic in fleming road which was the main exit of the meeting venue .
traffic was diverted to either marsh road flyover or arsenal street flyover ; (c) closure of u - turn loop in fleming road immediately south of the junction with convention avenue to reduce traffic on fleming road ; and (d) designation of more kerbside picking up / setting down spaces in harbour road and convention avenue for participants of the world bank / imp annual meetings .
these arrangements were widely publicised in advance and traffic police were deployed to direct traffic on the ground .
during the period when the special traffic arrangements were in force , the transport department and police closely monitored the situation on site .
they were satisfied that the special traffic arrangements were effective in facilitating traffic circulation and minimising congestion in wan chai .
among the participants of the meetings were a large number of senior ministers and officials of other governments who had to be provided with special protection under international conventions for events of this nature .
the need to co - ordinate the transport movements of a large number of internationally protected persons who took part in the meetings and the associated activities inevitably created some inconvenience to other commuters .
every effort had been made to minimize such inconvenience .
the $number world bank / imf annual meetings were special and important events for hong kong . they allowed the international community to see hong kong after the handover .
we are aware that the events have caused some inconvenience to hong kong people .
we hope they will understand .
our experience on this occasion will be taken into account when we plan traffic arrangements for similar major international events in future .
comprehensive programme to abate air pollution following is a question by the hon ho chung - tai and a reply by the secretary for planning , environment and lands , mr bowen leung , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : on $date this year , the air pollution index (api) exceeded $number for two consecutive days for $number time .
the environmental protection department explained that the weather condition and undispersed motor vehicle emissions were the main causes .
reply : madam president , (a) the dominance of diesel vehicles in hong kong and the considerable mileage they make is the main cause of hong kong 's air pollution problem , which is characterised by high ambient concentrations of a harmful air pollutant known as respirable suspended particulates emitted primarily from combustion of diesel fuel .
(b) researches have shown that episodes of poor air quality are associated with increased morbidity and mortality in persons with heart or respiratory diseases , young children and the aged .
the general public may develop symptoms like eye irritation , cough and throat discomfort when exposed to air pollution for a prolonged period . persons working long hours outdoor in polluted areas are at a higher risk of developing such symptoms .
(c) the environmental protection department has published a pamphlet on " air pollution index " which advises the public on the potential health effects associated with high api readings and the precautionary measures to be taken .
the department is revising the information pamphlet to include more detailed advice .
on days of poor air quality , advice to susceptible persons with heart or respiratory disease to reduce physical exertion and outdoor activities are made through tv and radio announcements and schools .
(d) we have implemented a comprehensive programme to abate air pollution .
polluting industrial processes are subject to rigorous licensing controls under the air pollution control ordinance and are required to adopt the best practicable measures to minimise emissions .
construction activities are required by law to implement specified dust suppression measures .
as regards vehicle emissions , our strategy comprises the following elements : (i) $date , to require newly registered petrol vehicles to operate on unleaded petrol and be fitted with catalytic converter ; (ii) to adopt the most stringent practicable emission standards for diesel vehicles ; ( iii ) to upgrade the quality of motor diesel fuel progressively .
since $date , the sulphur content of motor diesel was further reduced to $number per cent , making our diesel fuel the cleanest used in asia ; and (iv) to strengthen the annual inspection arrangements for commercial vehicles , including the use of a more revealing dynamometer test .
however , as our air pollution problem is caused by the large number of intensively used diesel vehicles , only a substantial reduction in their numbers can bring sufficient improvements to our air quality .
in the long term , therefore , we aim to introduce lpg vehicles to replace part of our diesel vehicle fleet .
we will launch a trial of lpg taxis in $date to ascertain their technical reliability when operating in the local driving environment and to obtain information on their fuel consumption and repair and maintenance requirements for devising a viable motor fuel strategy to improve air quality .
we have also been monitoring the development of clean fuel alternatives such as electric and natural gas vehicles .
at present they are not practicable options for hong kong .
the lack of stable supply and an infrastructure for distribution and storage preclude the introduction of natural gas vehicles at this stage .
as for electric vehicles , the technology is still at a prototype stage and is not yet mature enough for large scale commercial production and use .
on transport demand management , our policy is to promote the use of public transport through the improvement and expansion of mass transit by railway and facilitation of the movement of people by bus by such measures as introduction of bus - only lanes .
$number comprehensive transport study commissioned by the transport department would examine and recommend a balanced transport strategy which would also address air quality concerns .
(e) the environmental protection department has been operating a roadside air quality monitoring station at mong kok .
two roadside stations are being constructed in causeway bay and central . they will come into operation in $date and $date respectively .
reply : (a) the geriatric day hospital at the yau ma tei specialist clinic extension , assesses the types of care and rehabilitation required by the patients , and then provide them with suitable treatments , e.g. physiotherapy and occupational therapy .
as a bridge between the hospitals and the community , geriatric day hospitals facilitate re - integration of discharged patients into the community .
patients discharged from hospitals can be referred to the geriatric day hospitals by their attending doctors .
patients in the community can be referred to the geriatric day hospitals by any registered doctors .
(b) the number of attendances for yau ma tei geriatric day hospital are : year attendances $number $number $number $number $number $number (c) geriatric day hospitals mainly serve elderly persons aged $number and above .
however , patients under the age of $number who because of their health conditions require the special services provided in these day hospitals are also admitted .
the geriatric day hospitals under the hospital authority operate on the basis of catchment areas . there are a total of $number geriatric day hospitals which cover the whole of hong kong .
the yau ma tei geriatric day hospital provides services to residents of tsim sha tsui , yau ma tei and mong kok .
(d) there are $number geriatric day hospitals under the hospital authority . they are situated in : $number .
yung fung shee memorial centre the total attendances for the $number geriatric day hospitals are : year attendances $number $number $number $number $number $number (e) with $number geriatric day hospitals operating in different parts of hong kong , there is no plan to set up more such hospitals in the near future .
we will continue to monitor the need for this service closely and make plan when necessary .
impact of currency turmoil on hk 's economy following is a question by the hon henry tang and a written reply by the secretary for financial services , mr rafael hui , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : although the strength of the hong kong dollar remains unaffected under the linked exchange rate system amid recent devaluations of several southeast asian currencies , the export trade of hong kong has suffered a blow .
in this connection , will the government inform this council what impact this southeast asian currency turmoil will have on hong kong 's economy ( in particular the import and export trade ) in the long run and what will the counter - measures put in place be in this regard ?
reply : the recent significant depreciation of several southeast asian currencies have given rise to increased uncertainties in the economic prospects of the affected countries in the region , such as thailand , malaysia , indonesia and the philippines .
contractionary policies induced by the currency turmoil in these countries will curb their demand for investment and consumer spending and reduce their intake of imported goods , thereby dampening the growth of trade in the region . thus hong kong 's visible trade will be affected to some extent .
in respect of invisible trade , hong kong 's tourism will also face some downward pressure .
at the same time , the significant depreciation of these southeast asian currencies will weaken the competitiveness of the goods of hong kong and those of the mainland exported via hong kong in the world market .
however , the impact of exchange rate movements on hong kong 's exports normally will only be reflected after one or two quarters , and only by then the extent of impact can be discerned more accurately .
on the other hand , the significant currency depreciation will also have a negative effect on import prices and production costs in these southeast asian countries .
higher interest rates and tighter liquidity will also restrain their output . additionally , exports of the southeast asian region are relatively concentrated in electronic products , while those of hong kong and the mainland are more diversified . apart from electronic products , textiles , garment and toys also account for a considerable share of the exports of the two places .
furthermore , in recent years hong kong has been continuously developing high value - added products and services in such fields as finance , information technology and business services . the competitive edge we maintain in these areas will help alleviate the impact of this southeast asian currency turmoil on the overall economic performance of hong kong .
we will certainly not view the impact of this currency turmoil lightly . apart from closely monitoring the situation , we will continue to improve our productivity and competitiveness and actively strengthen our marketing efforts , so as to strive for a better performance in our trade in goods and services under the current conditions .
labour productivity and wage increase following is a question by the hon chan wing - chan and a written reply by the secretary for financial services , mr rafael hui , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : will the government inform this council : (a) in respect of the three years $number , of the : (i) nominal and real wage indices and wage increase rates ; and (ii) labour productivity and rates of labour productivity growth ; ( iii ) in hong kong , broken down by " industry sector " and " occupation group " ; and (b) whether the rates of overall labour productivity growth in these three years were higher than the rates of overall real wage increase during the same period ; if so , whether the wage increases have had the effect of fuelling inflation in hong kong ?
reply : (a) (i) nominal and real wage indices and their respective rates of change broken down by sector and by occupation $date are available .
(ii) labour productivity index for the manufacturing sector and average labour productivity for the economy as a whole and their respective growth rates are available .
labour productivity statistics for the other sectors are not available .
(b) overall labour productivity growth , averaged at around $number per cent for the past three years , was higher than the corresponding real wage increase , averaged at $number per cent .
but labour productivity growth is also underpinned by other factors , apart from the improvement in workers ' own efficiency . these include the structural shift in employment to higher value - added service activities ; support from more extensive automation and mechanisation ; and adoption of more efficient production methods and techniques .
it is therefore not appropriate to simplistically link labour productivity growth with real wage increase .
in any case , the on - going productivity improvement and the more moderate wage increase in the past few years have helped to alleviate local production costs .
coupled with continued stable import prices , local inflation has come down from $number per cent $date to $number per cent in both $number and $number eight months of $number .
controls on the transport of dangerous goods following is a question by the hon lee kai - ming and a written reply by the secretary for security , mr peter lai , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : in $date this year , a container exploded in lung cheung road whilst in transit .
in the light of these incidences , will the government inform this council of : (a) the causes of the such incidents , and the measures in place to prevent the recurrence of similar incidents ; and (b) the controls over the transport of dangerous goods by containers trucks , and the measures in place to safeguard drivers , the workers concerned and the public ?
reply : madam president , (a) the initial finding of the fire services department (fsd) on the cause of the incident at lung cheung road is that sparks caused by the impact on the metal parts of the motor cycles under transportation inside the container ignited flammable vapour leaking from the fuel tanks of the motor cycles .
the government chemist is still investigating into the cause of the incident .
as regards the incident at siu lek yuen , the fsd believed that the explosion was caused by the disposal of lighted smoking material which ignited the flammable methanol vapour leaking from a ruptured plastic container .
the transport department (td) , the marine department , the hong kong police force and the fsd have been examining improvement measures to prevent the recurrence of similar incidents .
actions taken by the departments include (i) the td would formulate additional guidelines to be incorporated into the code of practice for the loading of vehicles , published under the road traffic ordinance ( chapter $number ) , which deals with the safe loading / mounting of goods on vehicles .
the fsd has also sent representatives to attend the td 's regular meetings with the trucking industry to provide advice on fire safety matters ; and (v) dangerous goods vehicles are inspected annually by different government departments prior to the renewal of their licences to ensure that the vehicles and their safety devices are functioning properly .
in addition , various safety checks are carried out on a regular basis .
(b) the dangerous goods ( general ) regulations stipulates controls on the conveyance of category $number ( compressed gases except liquefied petroleum gas (lpg) ) and category $number ( substances giving off inflammable vapours ) dangerous goods .
under the regulation , no person shall use any mechanically propelled vehicle for the conveyance by road of these goods in containers unless the use of such vehicle has been approved by the director of fire services (dfs) .
the dfs also needs to be satisfied that these dangerous goods are carried in a tank wagon of approved size , type and construction , and equipped for the carriage , loading and discharge of such goods .
it is a licensing requirement for dangerous goods vehicles under the dangerous goods ( general ) regulations that the transportation of dangerous goods must be attended by an experienced attendant .
the fsd provides training for drivers and attendants of dangerous goods vehicles licensed by the department .
the conveyance of lpg either in bulk or in cylinder is governed by the gas safety ordinance ( chapter $number ) .
only vehicles registered with the gas authority (ga) and constructed in accordance with the special safety requirements stipulated in the ordinance are allowed to convey lpg .
the gas safety ( gas supply ) regulations require that at least two trained persons must be employed on a lpg vehicle . the training for drivers and attendants of lpg vehicles is provided by the respective gas supply companies to standards approved by the ga .
under the dangerous goods ( general ) regulations , a removal permit issued by the commissioner of mines ( c of m ) is required each time a vehicle conveys explosives by land via an agreed route .
no vehicle shall carry $number kg of explosives at any time except with the permission in writing of the c of m , and such vehicle needs to be purpose built and have approved safety devices installed .
the driver for a vehicle carrying explosives and his assistant must be given special training on fire safety .
the driver has to be registered with the c of m. the factories and industrial undertakings ordinance ( chapter $number ) also provides safety guidelines for personnel handling dangerous goods in the course of transportation .
reply : madam president , (a) between $date and $date , $number mainland children surrendered to the immigration department ( the department ) after entering hong kong illegally , of whom $number were released on recognisance .
(b) during the same period of time , $number illegal immigrant children have been repatriated by the department , of whom $number children had surrendered themselves to the department after the establishment of the hong kong special administrative region government .
(c) under section $number ( $number ) of the immigration ordinance , no objection can be made under section $number to the making of a removal order .
appeals against removal orders , including those concerning illegal immigrant children , are considered by the immigration tribunal under section 5 3 a.
accordingly , no such case has ever been referred to the chief executive in council for consideration under section $number of the immigration ordinance .
public transport between tuen mun and tung chung following is a question by the hon david li and a written reply by the secretary for transport , mr nicholas ng , in the provisional legislative council today ( wednesday ) : question : it is reported that privately - run ferries are operating between tuen mun and tung chung and that students from tuen mun are taking the $number - minute ferry ride instead of the two - hour bus journey to and from their schools in tung chung .
in this connection , will the government inform this council whether it has undertaken any study on the adequacy of public transport for students travelling from tuen mun to tung chung ; if so , what the findings are ?
reply : madam president , at present , students who need to travel daily between tuen mun and tung chung new town can either use franchised buses , or a school bus service arranged by their schools .
for those who wish to use the regular franchised buses , they can take any of the bus routes leaving tuen mun and interchange with route e31 at tsuen wan for tung chung .
the service frequency of route e31 is $time during peak hours .
in addition , a school bus service between tuen mun and tung chung new town , organised by schools in tung chung for students living in tuen mun , has been in operation since $date .
on school days , it departs tuen mun at $number am for tung chung .
the journey time is $number hour .
surveys conducted by the transport department in the past few weeks indicate that the students are now adequately served by either public transport or school bus services .
hong kong and japan to 'forge deeper friendship ' says ce trade and investment links between hong kong and japan will deepen and benefit in tandem as china 's massive economy continues to open up next century , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , told japan 's political and business leaders today ( thursday ) .
mr tung said the reform of state - owned enterprises in china would present opportunities for japanese banking and investment houses in hong kong in areas such as raising capital and providing financial management expertise .
japan has a considerable presence in hong kong 's banking sector , with $number banks licensed to operate and $number with representative offices in the sar . about $number more restricted - licence banks or deposit taking companies also operate in hong kong .
in $number full day of meetings on his $number official visit to japan as chief executive , mr tung encouraged japanese business chiefs to look for areas in which partnerships could be forged in hong kong 's fast - developing value - added service industries .
topping the list of ministerial calls was a meeting with japanese prime minister , mr ryutaro hashimoto , who congratulated mr tung on the smooth running of hong kong since the reversion of sovereignty on $date .
" the friendship between hong kong and japan is not going to change . if anything , it will only get deeper , " mr tung said of the meeting with the japanese prime minister .
mr tung said the importance of a free and open global trade regime was discussed , as well as the important role the world trade organisation is set to play within the international community .
mr tung told mr hashimoto , as well as other political and business leaders , that japanese investments would be thoroughly protected by the rule of law in hong kong .
he stressed the hong kong government was committed to rooting out and punishing corruption , the maintenance of law and order and prudent fiscal policy .
the chief executive was asked about hong kong 's linked exchange rate which he said would be maintained because it provided stability and certainty to hong kong 's financial markets and trading partners .
other meetings were held with the minister for foreign affairs , mr keizo obuchi , the minister of finance , mr hiroshi mitsuzuka , and the minister for international trade and industry , mr mitsuo horiuchi .
earlier today , mr tung met members of the japan - hong kong business co - operation committee and the influential japan federation of economic organisations ( keidanren ) .
mr tung was also guest of honour at a reception tonight hosted by china 's ambassador to japan , mr xu dunxin .
meanwhile , business and political groups in japan expect hong kong to continue to prosper as a leading financial and trading hub .
the japan - hong kong parliamentarian league and the japan - hong kong business co - operation committee expressed confidence in hong kong 's future prosperity under the 'one country , two systems ' formula .
" it is highly desirable for japan , as well as china and all other countries , that hong kong should continue to brim with vitality as an international trade and financial centre while it enjoys a broad range of autonomy by firmly maintaining the 'one country , two systems ' policy , " said japan - hong kong parliamentarian league chairman , mr tsutomu hata , in a ' japan times ' supplement to highlight the chief executive 's visit .
" i have great confidence in the continued prosperous future of hong kong . "
japan - hong kong business co - operation committee chairman , mr tomiichi akiyama , said it was common knowledge that hong kong owed its prosperity to its economic freedom .
" i firmly believe that hong kong , under the 'one country , two systems ' policy , will continue to acquire greater importance as a business gateway to china and as a trading centre in asia , " said mr akiyama .
" i hope that japan and hong kong will maintain their close relations for many years to come , and also that hong kong will keep up its free - wheeling economic activities so that it may attain greater prosperity as an international economic and trading centre . "
fire safety package announced a package of measures , including introducing new legislation and stepping up enforcement actions , to improve fire safety was announced today ( thursday ) .
elaborating on details of the package at a press conference , deputy secretary for security , mr alex fong , said the measures were developed by an inter - departmental working group , having regard to lessons learnt in the garley building and the top one karaoke fires and recommendations made by the hon justice woo in his final report on the inquiry into the garley building fire .
" we will adopt a five - pronged approach to improve fire safety , namely , strengthening our legislative and administrative framework to upgrade fire safety standards ; stepping up enforcement actions ; strengthening the response capabilities of the emergency services ; promoting a fire safety culture among building management ; and promoting a fire safety culture amongst the community , " mr fong said .
on legislative and administrative framework , mr fong said the objective was to upgrade and strengthen the hardware , such as fire service installations ( fsi ) , means of escape and access ( moe and moa ) in buildings , as well as the software , such as better procedures and code of practice , to ensure fire safety precautions were taken .
for fire safety in lift and welding works , the sar government would introduce among other things legislation $date / $number to require , under a mandatory safety training scheme , all construction workers to undergo fire safety training as part of the recognised safety training course .
while noting that there was general support for legislative proposals to require the upgrading of fsi , moe and moa in old commercial buildings , mr fong said the government also noted concerns expressed by building owners over technical and financial difficulties .
" in implementing the new legislative requirements , which may be introduced in early $number , we will work with building management and owners .
" the government will take a pragmatic and flexible approach in implementation to help building owners overcome some of the problems they might encounter , " mr fong said .
" we are also considering the possibility of providing financial support to buildings through a loan scheme , " he said .
on karaoke establishments , mr fong said the two provisional municipal councils had agreed to be the future licensing authorities of a new statutory licensing scheme to regulate the health , fire safety , building safety and public safety aspects for these premises .
" the relevant trades will be consulted on the proposals shortly , with the aim to introducing the legislation in the $number legislative session , " he said .
on enforcement actions , mr fong said additional resources had been secured for the coming financial year to support fire safety work .
" in order to use the additional resources more efficiently and maximise the impact of actions taken , we are reviewing how enforcement actions amongst departments can be better coordinated , e.g. better synchronisation on the timing of inspections , sharing of information and making cross referrals on fire risks detected during inspections , " he said .
" we also hope to take a more proactive approach in the inspection of the targeted $number pre-1973 commercial buildings , " he added .
on strengthening response capabilities , mr fong said improvements to the communication and co - ordination procedures within and between the emergency services would be introduced so that they could share useful information gathered during an operation .
a new arrangement , he said , had already been promulgated under which district officers would coordinate the setting up of an inter - departmental help desk at the scene to handle public enquiries and government assistance offered to victims and their families .
" we are also considering measures to strengthen staff training and improve our equipment , " he said .
on promoting a fire safety culture among building management , mr fong said the fire services department (fsd) had set up a community relations unit to strengthen the interface between the government and the community in the fight against fire .
" we hope to achieve improvements through building management coordination teams under the home affairs department (had) , which can be used as the link between various government departments and owners ' corporations ( ocs ) as well as had 's new resource centre , to be established in mid $number , to provide information and advice on ways to improve the fire safety standards of buildings , " he said .
as to recommendations on stepping up training for caretakers , he said the security guarding industry authority had agreed to improve the existing training manual and was considering the idea of whether to require security personnel to pass a test on building management before the issue of permits .
on promoting fire safety culture amongst the community , mr fong said a major publicity campaign on fire safety , with a budget of about $ $number , would be launched next year .
" we plan to carry out a phone survey before , during and after the campaign to assess the public attitudes , " he said .
while the fire safety ambassadors scheme , run by the fsd and targeted at boy scouts and girl guides , had been enthusiastically received , mr fong said the department had started extending its training to members of the estate management advisory committees of the housing department , who would in turn recruit public housing estate tenants to become fire safety ambassadors .
" the had is actively considering proposals to strengthen community involvement at the district level , including the setting up of committees with the participation of non - officials to advise on fire safety and prevention matters , " he said .
mr fong called on building management and the community to work together with the government in developing a fire safety culture .
" for our programmes to succeed , the five elements in our strategy needs to be synchronised and the government and the community have to work together in partnership , " he said .
infrastructure co - ordinating committee meets subsequent to consultation between hong kong and the mainland and upon approval of the state council , the " hong kong and mainland cross - boundary major infrastructure co - ordinating committee " (icc) was established on $date and held its $number plenary meeting in shenzhen .
the meeting discussed and defined the terms of reference of the icc , confirmed the consensus and progress reached by the previous " sino - british co - ordinating committee on major cross - border infrastructure between hong kong and the mainland " , listened to the work progress reports of the panels since $number meeting of the previous icc as well as discussed the arrangements for the next step of work . the icc , formed by officials from the relevant government departments of the mainland and the hong kong special administrative region (hksar) comprises of seven members on each side . the mainland team is led by mr zhang liangdong , director of the economic department of the hong kong and macao affairs office of the state council ; the hksar team is led by mr bowen leung , secretary for planning , environment and lands .
the terms of reference of the icc are to exchange views and information on the co - ordination and interface of major infrastructure projects straddling the mainland and hong kong and to seek common views in order to enable the socio - economic benefits of the relevant infrastructural projects to be achieved in a more scientific , rational and effective manner .
it will respect the decision - making power of the mainland and hksar on their respective infrastructural projects .
the meeting formally confirmed the " memorandum of understanding on the progress of work of the sino - british co - ordinating committee on major cross - border infrastructure between hong kong and the mainland " signed by the leaders of the chinese and british teams of the previous icc on $date .
the icc will carry out its work on the basis established by the previous icc .
the meeting discussed and confirmed the " memorandum of understanding on flight procedures and air traffic control matters in the pearl river delta area by a technical working group of air traffic control experts of mainland china , british hong kong and portuguese macao " ( hereinafter referred to as the memorandum ) signed by the previous icc air traffic control panel technical working group and the air traffic control department of portuguese macao .
the meeting also discussed and confirmed the memorandum of understanding signed on $date by the mainland , hksar and portuguese macao sides concerning arrival , departure and missed approach procedures of the macao international airport .
the authority concerned will implement the measures concerned as soon as possible , so as to facilitate the operation of the new hong kong airport in $date as planned .
the meeting also considered that by launching shuttle bus services as approved by the previous icc expert group on lok ma chau - huanggang passenger crossing , the original target of raising the passenger handling capacity at the crossing had been achieved .
for the time being , the icc has , according to its own need established four panels under it , namely , the marine channels panel , roads and bridges panel , lok ma chau - huanggang passenger crossing panel and air traffic control panel .
auction on items bearing connotations of british sovereignty a public auction for sale of items bearing connotations of british sovereignty will be held on $date , the director of government supplies , mr nigel shipman , announced today ( thursday ) .
at the auction , $number lots of items will be put up for sale . they include revenue stamps ; flags ; crockery ; swords ; buttons , badges , insignia and uniforms ; and photo - posters and photographic portraits of the british royal family .
these items are available for inspection on every saturday and sunday during the period $date at $number floor , government logistics centre , $number chong fu road , chai wan .
" there will be four sessions , with two to be held in the mornings and the other in the afternoons of $date . for each of the sessions , $number lots will be auctioned and $number seats will be made available , " said mr shipman .
" registration will be done on a $number come $number served basis on $date at the government logistics centre . the applicant or his authorised representative is required to produce the hong kong identity card or passport of the applicant . "
the hong kong auctioneers & estate agency limited have been engaged by the government as the auctioneer .
mr shipman said the government had received enquiries about the sale of items bearing connotations of british sovereignty from interested parties in hong kong and from overseas . " we will notify those persons of the auction , " mr shipman added .
" intending bidders , particularly those from places outside hong kong , may authorise the auctioneer to bid on their behalf . they should obtain a bid form from the auctioneer prior to the auction , " he said .
the $number items available for sale are published in the auction list , with full details of the auction set out in the notice of auction .
the auction list and notice of auction can be obtained from the government supplies department (gsd) at $number oil street , north point or from the auctioneer at $number floor , johnson mansion , $number queen 's road west , starting from tomorrow ( $date ) .
interested parties , both local and overseas , may also obtain information about the auction via internet by visiting the gsd 's web site at http://www.info.gov.hk/gsd/auction.htm .
enquiries about the auction can be directed to the gsd ( tel . $number $number ) or to the auctioneer ( tel . $number $number ) .
vacant classrooms fully used where possible the education department today ( thursday ) clarified that the use of vacant classrooms has always featured in government 's planning for whole - day primary schooling .
a department spokesman said that besides building $number primary schools by year $number , existing vacant classrooms will be used wherever possible to facilitate the switch to whole - day operation .
he pointed out , however , that some of these classrooms cannot be used for whole - day schooling .
" some of them are in remote areas and require unreasonably long time for young kids to travel from other districts , " the spokesman said .
" some are in schools scheduled for demolition to make way for redevelopment , " he said .
" others are in new schools and they will be filled when students progress through primary schooling . some schools have vacant classrooms only in the morning or only in the afternoon , but their vacant classrooms are not enough to facilitate conversion to whole - day operation .
" we have been taking all steps possible , including use of vacant classrooms , to speed up implementation of whole - day schooling . "
airport authority hk $ $number note issuance programme the airport authority announced today ( thursday ) the signing of a hk $ $number note issuance programme arranged by the hong kong monetary authority (hkma) .
the programme will allow the airport authority to issue notes with a denomination of hk $ $number and maturities of up to $number years .
$number issue of hk $ $number is likely to be launched later this year or in early $number , subject to favourable market conditions .
this is $number note issuance programme for which the hkma acts as the arranger , agent and operator for the issuer .
at today 's signing ceremony , the chairman of the airport authority , mr wong po - yan , reiterated the strength of the new airport business .
" the new airport will open next $date , on time and within budget , " mr wong said .
" as we get closer to airport opening , we find ourselves heading into a very exciting , dynamic phase in the aviation business .
" the overall strength of our business has been widely acknowledged .
apart from a substantial capital injection from our sole shareholder , the government , we will be inheriting from kai tak a fairly solid and flourishing business .
our strength is also built upon our ability to create diversified , nicely balanced and relatively stable streams of revenue comprising airport charges , retail operations and aviation franchises and terminal office rentals .
" of equal significance is our unwavering commitment to running our business on prudent commercial principles and applying stringent measures of cost control .
by putting out all our works , service and commercial contracts through open tender on the basis of a level playing field , we have been able to hold costs down without compromising the quality of service to be provided .
" the new airport at chek lap kok is being developed innovatively to meet market demands .
i am sure the success of our new airport , to which each of you in the financial community has contributed in no small measure , will both mirror and support that of the sar well into the next century . "
the chief executive of the hkma , mr joseph c k yam , said : " the note issuance programme should enable the airport authority to borrow hong kong dollar funds at a lower cost .
this is achieved through the market making arrangements and the eligibility for laf which together ensure a high degree of liquidity and therefore enhance the attractiveness of the paper in the secondary market , enabling the paper to be more finely priced . "
the mass transit railway corporation (mtrc) launched a similar note issuance programme $date which enabled the corporation to raise funds at below the interbank interest rates .
under the airport authority note issuance programme , notes will be sold from time to time by tender to a group of appointed recognised dealers and market - makers .
by extending the existing market - making arrangement of the exchange fund paper programme to these airport authority notes , market - makers are obliged to quote two - way prices for the airport authority notes during money market hours .
in return the market - makers can go short in any issues of the exchange fund paper or airport authority or mtrc notes provided they hold sufficient amount of other exchange fund paper or airport authority or mtrc notes in the system to square off their short positions by entering into a repo transaction with the hkma at the end of the day .
notes issued under the airport authority note issuance programme will be cleared through the central moneymarkets unit and will be eligible for discounting under the liquidity adjustment facility operated by the hkma .
moves to speed up small house grants the lands department has introduced new measures to make processing of application for small house grants more transparent and expeditious .
the moves are aimed at enhancing staff safety in the wake of attacks on two land executives .
one of the measures is to include in the pamphlet on the grants a table setting out item by item the criteria for the issue of a certificate of compliance .
" this will help applicants provide sufficient information and valid document to support their application , " the director of lands , mr robert pope , said today ( thursday ) at a press conference .
" we have also taken the opportunity to state categorically that land executives do not have the authority to make any exemption , " mr pope said .
" there are statutory provisions to comply with and standard procedures to follow , " he added .
to reduce the processing time , mr pope said , the department would launch a pilot scheme under which some of the administrative work would be contracted out to registered land surveyors and solicitors in private practice .
" this will include the setting out of a small house site , preparation of a site plan to be attached to the land grant document , legal documentation and registration of title deeds , " government land agent ( estate management ) , mr george chung , explained at the press conference .
" under the scheme , an applicant may opt for the services of the contractors to be provided at the tendered price , " mr chung said .
" applicants who opt for contractors ' services will have their applications processed in a shorter time , " mr chung said .
mr chung said the pilot scheme would be introduced in yuen long next $date .
" if proved successful , it may be extended to other parts of the new territories , " he said .
recounting the attacks on two land executives , mr pope said staff safety was always the number one concern of the department .
" in the light of the result of investigation , both the police and the department believe the attacks were related to official duties , probably in connection with applications for small house grants , " he said .
" we are giving every assistance to the two officers in their application for compensation and the government has agreed to reimburse all necessary medical expenses to the one who has lost one eye , " he said .
since the attacks , the department has held a series of seminar with police assistance on safety at work and has drawn up detailed guidelines on staff safety and office security .
" we are here to serve the community and if we have done wrong , we are open to criticism and complaint and will do our best to improve , but violence must be condemned , " mr pope said .
hkma introduces securities lending programme the hong kong monetary authority (hkma) announced today ( thursday ) that the central moneymarkets unit (cmu) will launch a securities lending programme for private sector debt securities on $date .
the programme aims to enhance the liquidity and settlement efficiency of cmu private sector debt securities , and increase their attractiveness to investors by enhancing the yields for the lenders .
drawing on the success of the market - making system for the exchange fund paper , the programme allows cmu members who are prepared to act as market - makers of private sector issues to borrow securities from other cmu members to cover their short positions .
the market - makers will be required to quote two way prices at a reasonable spread during money market hours .
the operational framework for the programme has been finalised after consultation with the hong kong capital markets association and the programme will commence operation on $date .
" the programme will enhance the liquidity of cmu private sector debt securities by providing an efficient mechanism to utilise securities held by long term investors for short - term use by the more active market participants , " said the chief executive of the hkma , mr joseph yam .
the hkma also announced today that the bilateral linkages between the cmu and the securities depositories in australia ( the reserve bank information and transfer system for government securities and austraclear for private sector debt securities ) will commence operation on $date .
besides helping market development , these bilateral linkages will also help to reduce settlement risk by facilitating cross border delivery versus payment arrangements .
" this is a major step forward for cross border securities linkages in the region .
the linkage of domestic depositories will facilitate the clearing of cross border trades in debt securities in asia . it will enlarge the investor base and broaden domestic debt markets . it is our objective to set up more of such linkages with other systems in the region , " added mr yam .
besides australia , the hkma is discussing with the people 's bank of china and the reserve bank of new zealand on establishing similar linkages with the central securities depositories in the mainland of china and new zealand .
film services office to be set up in $date a film services office will be set up on $date to co - ordinate and facilitate the film industry in film production , especially with regard to location shooting applications .
this was revealed by the secretary for broadcasting , culture and sport , mr chau tak - hay , at the broadcasting , culture and sport panel meeting this ( thursday ) morning to brief provisional legislative council members on the policy commitments of his portfolio in the policy address .
" the film services office will be an independent unit under the television and entertainment licensing authority (tela) and will be working directly to the commissioner for television and entertainment licensing . " it will be completely detached from the film censorship section of the tela so as to avoid confusing the role of the tela in film regulation , " he said .
as regards the film services advisory committee to be chaired by the secretary himself , it aims at providing a direct conduit for dialogue between the film industry and government to replace the irregular and informal contacts in the past . representatives of the industry can advise the secretary on all matters relating to the film industry , including its long - term development and areas where government assistance is required .
he said : " it was a fact that our film industry had been hard hit by competition and its business suffered a downturn .
to regain its position , our film makers have to be innovative and work hard to attract viewers back to the cinemas amidst the diverse entertainment and information services presently available to them .
" what the government can and should do is not to provide financial assistance or subsidy but to simplify the bureaucratic procedures that film makers have to comply in shooting films . "
on long - term development , the secretary noted that the government has decided to make available for public tender in the $number land disposal programme a site at tseung kwan o for film shooting and post - production purposes in order to encourage infrastructural investment in film production . this is because the lack of film studio facilities undermines our film production capabilities and indirectly increases the demand for location shooting . besides , the application of computer technology and the use of advanced audio - visual equipment in producing the special audio and visual effects in films had greatly enhanced the popularity of films .
turning to television , mr chau pointed out that there was a need to improve the existing regulatory framework so as to cope with future development .
" the forthcoming $number review on television environment will be a good opportunity for us to advance this objective , and to take forward our pledge of providing the community with more and better broadcasting and entertainment services , " he said .
moreover , the government is now examining whether the hong kong industrial estates corporation 's admission criteria could be relaxed to benefit the television industry and related services .
as regards arts and culture , mr chau said that there had not been a comprehensive cultural policy in hong kong because in the past the government had not placed particular importance on formulating a cultural policy which would promote chinese culture or a sense of national identity .
$number , hong kong has all along adopted a policy of minimum interference .
whilst providing public education , the government does not seek to influence ideas , but allows freedom of thought , speech , information and the press so that people can give full play to their talents and creativity .
nevertheless , he said that due to the joint efforts of the hong kong arts development council and the two municipal councils , hong kong does have , through the organisation of recreational and cultural exchanges and other activities , a sound base for gradually nurturing the public 's understanding of national history and culture and for building a greater sense of national identity .
" i am sure that the constitutional affairs bureau 's review of the three - tier representative government will help define the future roles of the municipal councils on the promotion of arts and culture development , thereby enabling us to allocate and utilise resources more effectively to promote the development of the arts in hong kong , " he said .
sha visits kowloon districts the secretary for home affairs , mr david lan , is updated on the general situation in yau tsim mong , sham shui po and wong tai sin districts during his visit today ( thursday ) .
mr lan $number visited two bedspace apartments in jordan road to see for himself the living environment there .
he then proceeded to the site of the purpose - built singleton hostel at shun ning road where he was briefed on the progress of construction works and design of the hostel .
the $number - storey hostel , scheduled for completion in $date to accommodate $number lodgers , is constructed by the home affairs department and funded by the land development corporation .
before leaving for wong tai sin , mr lan also visited an english class for new arrival children organised by the international social services hong kong branch at the shek kip mei community hall .
mr lan concluded his visit with a meeting with some mutual aid committee office - bearers at the fung tak estate community centre to show appreciation for their good work in raising funds in estates for charities . he also encouraged them to continue their support in various community affairs , including voter registration , building management and community building .
accompanying mr lan were the director of home affairs , mrs shelley lau , the yau tsim mong district officer , ms rebecca pun , the sham shui po district officer , mr john leung , and the wong tai sin district officer , miss diane wong .
candidates of the adc nomination exercise announced the broadcasting , culture and sport bureau (bcsb) announced today ( thursday ) that a total of $number candidates have been nominated to take part in the forthcoming hong kong arts development council (adc) nomination exercise .
registration of voters and nomination of candidates for the exercise closed on $date .
over the registration period , some $number voters have registered under the $number arts interests involved , namely , literary arts , music , dance , drama , visual arts , film arts , arts administration , arts education , arts criticism and traditional performances .
polling will be held on $date ( sunday ) .
the elected representatives of the $number concerned arts interests will be forwarded to the chief executive for consideration of appointment to the adc for the new term commencing from $date .
candidates in respect of four arts interests are uncontested . voters of these arts interests are therefore not required to cast their votes on polling day .
the uncontested candidates are : * dr vicki ooi cheng - har for arts criticism ; * mr cheung ping - kuen for drama ; * mr gordon chan ka - seung for film arts ; and * ms chan hang - kwai for traditional performances dr vicki ooi , mr cheung ping - kuen and mr chan ka - seung are incumbent adc members .
a total of $number candidates are to run in the other six arts interests .
they are : * mr nicholas james and mr lee kin - chun for arts administration ; * mr andrew lam hon - kin and mr yu shu - tak for arts education ; * mr chang jui - yuan , mr mathias woo yan - wai and mr willy tsao sing - yuen for dance ; * mr woo chih - wai and mr poon ming - sun for literary arts ; * ms barbara fei and mr yeung ping for music ; and * mr lee kam - yin , mr wong bok - tsang and mr wang hai for visual arts .
the nomination agent , papc , will organize forums for all candidates who wish to meet voters . these forums will be held at the government secretariat conference room , $number floor , central government offices main wing ( new annex ) , lower albert road on $date , $number .
details of the candidates , their platforms , and arrangements for candidates ' forums and polling will be sent shortly by post to registered voters .
eligible voters of the six concerned arts interests , namely , arts administration , arts education , dance , literary arts , music and visual arts are to vote in person between $number am and $number pm on $date at the polling station located at the heritage resource centre of the antiquities and monuments office , $number nathan road , tsimshatsui , kowloon .
for enquiries , please contact miss kathy chan of papc on $number $number .
consumer goods safety appeal board panel appointed a sar government spokesman announced today ( thursday ) that the secretary for trade and industry has appointed $number members , including the chairman and the deputy chairman , to the appeal board panel under the consumer goods safety ordinance for a period of two years with effect from $date ( monday ) , $number .
fourteen existing members , including the chairman and deputy chairman , have been re - appointed .
they are mr andrew liao cheung - sing ( chairman ) , mr larry kwok lam - kwong ( deputy chairman ) , ms alice chan lai - hing , dr chan wai - kwan , dr david lloyd crone , dr george william greene , dr keung wing - ching , professor joseph lai ki - leuk , dr david lee ka - yan , mr norman lo kam - wah , mr cliff sun kai - lit , mr aaron wan chi - keung , dr chris wong ho - ching and mr jose yu sun - say .
the three new members are mr irving koo yee - yin , mr yip kam - yuen and mrs yuen chan po - hing .
" the appeal board is responsible for hearing appeals against enforcement decisions or actions taken by the commissioner of customs and excise under the consumer goods safety ordinance , " the spokesman said .
textbook grants increased for $number school year the textbook grants for the $number school year have been significantly increased to bring the level of assistance in line with the market price of textbooks .
a spokesman for the student financial assistance agency said today ( thursday ) that new benchmark rates of textbook grant had been approved for the $number academic year to help needy parents to pay for the purchase of essential textbook and stationery for their children .
the new rates at $ $number ( full grant ) for primary students and $ $number ( full grant ) for junior secondary students represent increases of $number per cent and $number per cent respectively as compared to similar grant levels in the $number academic year .
parents who wish to benefit from the scheme can apply through their children 's schools at the beginning of the school year .
an applicant who passes the means - test set with reference to a prescribed reckoner will be awarded a full grant or half grant .
" the amounts of assistance are adjusted annually by taking into consideration movements in the textbook price index of consumer price index (a) and the findings of a sample survey on the average cost of school textbooks conducted annually by the agency , " the spokesman said .
" parents who are interested are welcome to contact the textbook assistance section of the student financial assistance agency at $number $number for further details , " he added .
industrial production index for $number $number quarter the index of industrial production for $number quarter of $number decreased slightly by $number over the same quarter $date , according to the results of a survey released today ( thursday ) by the census and statistics department .
analysed by industry group , output of the wearing apparel ( except footwear ) industry and the basic metals and fabricated metal products industry decreased by $number and $number respectively .
a decrease of $number was registered in the output of the industry group of electrical and electronic products , machinery , professional equipment and optical goods . within this group , output of the consumer electrical and electronic products industry decreased by $number , whereas output of the machinery , equipment , apparatus , parts and components industry increased by $number .
however , output of the food , beverages and tobacco industry and the paper products and printing industry increased moderately by $number and $number respectively .
slight increases in output were also recorded in the chemical , rubber , plastic and non - metallic mineral products industry ( $number ) and the textiles ( including knitting ) industry ( $number ) .
compared with $number quarter of $number , the index of industrial production showed a notable increase of $number . this was consistent with the usual pick - up in manufacturing activities in $number quarter .
in other words , it measures the volume of local production after discounting the effect of price changes .
more detailed information can be obtained from the " quarterly index of industrial production , $number quarter $number " report , which is on sale at $ $number a copy at the government publications sales centre , ground floor , low block , queensway government offices , $number queensway , hong kong , or at the census and statistics department publications unit , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries about the survey results may be directed to the general economic surveys section of the census and statistics department at tel $number $number .
seminar to promote fire safety members of the public , mutual aid committees and owners ' corporations in yuen long are invited to participate in a building management seminar cum exhibition on fire safety and building maintenance .
organised by the yuen long district office with the assistance of the fire services department , electrical and mechanical services department and buildings department , the seminar will be held on $date ( saturday ) from $number pm to $number pm at yuen long town hall , tai yuk road , yuen long while the exhibition will be on display from $number am to $number pm .
senior station officer , mr s w chow ; senior electrical and mechanical engineer , mr k h lo ; customer services and installation manager , mr c n wong and building surveyor , mr c k wong will be among the guest speakers to give talks respectively on fire prevention , electrical installation , and building safety inspection scheme . they will also answer questions from the participants .
the deputy director of home affairs , mr lui hau - tuen , will address the seminar .
enquiries can be made on telephone $number $number .
hong kong - japan 'on threshold of new era ' , says ce hong kong and japan are on the threshold of a new era in economic partnership , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , said today ( friday ) in tokyo .
speaking at a luncheon attended by $number business , trade , tourism and community leaders , mr tung said : " it is time to rethink the scope of the japan - hong kong partnership .
" the broadening of the economic partnership between japan and hong kong will benefit not just our own people . it will , in my view , be a powerful force for stability , prosperity and peaceful co - operation in the entire region as the new century unfolds . "
mr tung highlighted the already strong links between hong kong and japan , noting the presence of $number japanese companies and close to $number japanese expatriates and their families in hong kong .
" japanese products and department stores , like sushi and karaoke , are an integral part of hong kong 's life , " mr tung said at the lunch , jointly hosted by hong kong economic and trade office , hong kong trade development council , hong kong tourist association and the japan hong kong society .
" japan is a lead partner in major hong kong infrastructure projects , including our new airport .
" japanese trading conglomerates are also very active in hong kong , which serves as their principal sourcing and marketing hub for southern china and , in many cases , southeast asia .
" all of this is reflected in the growth in trade between us , which more than doubled in the past decade , strongly boosted by re - exports of japanese products to china and the rest of the region .
" similarly , about one - $number of china 's trade with japan was handled by hong kong last year . "
mr tung said hong kong and japan had a dynamic partnership which was set to expand into an even more significant economic relationship .
he said japanese companies had a greater role to play in hong kong 's economy as it accelerated towards higher , value - added industries and services .
" these are technology and knowledge - based areas where japan is already strong and has much to contribute to new partnerships in the sar , " he said .
the chief executive said the epic scale of economic reform in china also presented opportunities to japanese business .
" hong kong is primed to make a unique and mutually beneficial contribution in areas such as raising capital , new technologies , professional expertise and contacts in overseas markets , especially through our capital markets , " he said .
" but it is a huge challenge and one in which we would welcome japanese partners . "
mr tung said there were fresh areas in which japan and hong kong could work together in the wider region .
" following the currency crisis , i envisage a return to sounder , export - led strategies for growth in southeast asia which will , in turn , create demand for more manufacturing investment , technology and infrastructure support , " he said .
" these are all areas where japan and hong kong are strong . working more closely together , we can be even stronger . "
mr tung also told guests that one of his highest priorities outlined in his inaugural policy address last week would be to make hong kong more competitive .
he said inflation and the rising costs of doing business in hong kong were areas of particular concern affecting the sar 's competitiveness .
he said increasing the supply of housing and land would bring some cost relief in the property sector .
another area to boost competitiveness would be to foster the move towards higher value - added industries by providing more land for high - technology industries and speeding the application of information technology to official business and commerce .
guests were also told of hong kong 's smooth transition and the guarantees contained in the basic law to maintain hong kong 's economic , social and political systems separate from those on the mainland for $number years .
new chairman of civil court users ' committee appointed the chief justice , the honourable mr justice andrew li , announces today ( friday ) the appointment of the honourable mr justice rogers , judge of the court of $number instance of the high court as the chairman of the civil court users ' committee .
the other members appointed to the committee are the honourable mr justice cheung ( judge of the court of $number instance ) ; his honour judge chung ( district judge ) ; mr geoffrey ma , senior counsel ( representing the bar association ) ; mr nick hunsworth ( representing the law society ) ; mr lee jak pui ; mr anthony wu of the department of justice ; ms dorothy silkstone of the official receiver 's office and ms jennie hui of the legal aid department .
the term of appointment for the chairman and all members will be for two years and will take effect on $date ( monday ) , $number .
mr justice rogers will succeed the honourable mr justice bokhary who has stepped down from the committee following his appointment as a permanent judge of the court of final appeal .
mr justice rogers has been a member of the committee $date .
the civil court users ' committee was set up $date to work out ways and means to improve services in the then supreme court ( now retitled as high court ) .
its terms of reference are to look after matters of concern to users of the courts , including but not limited to : - all matters of practice and procedure ; - the administration of the courts , including listing and the use of technology ; and - facilities provided in court buildings .
revised guideline on prevention of money laundering issued the hong kong monetary authority (hkma) today ( friday ) issued a revised guideline on prevention of money laundering under section $number ( $number ) of the banking ordinance .
the revised guideline replaces the previous guideline on this subject issued in $date .
it has been endorsed by the banking advisory committee and the deposit - taking companies advisory committee after extensive consultation with the industry associations and other interested parties .
the revised guideline has taken into account the changes in money laundering legislation $date , including the passage of the organized and serious crimes ordinance (osco) $date which extended the money laundering offence to the proceeds of serious crimes other than drug trafficking ; as well as the subsequent amendments to both osco and the drug trafficking ( recovery of proceeds ) ordinance $date which imposed a clear statutory duty to report suspicious transactions .
the revisions made have also significantly strengthened and clarified the customer identification requirements in the guideline , particularly in respect of shell companies , trust and nominee accounts and other types of intermediaries , which are in line with the latest recommendations of the financial action task force (fatf) - an international organization aimed at strengthening international co - operation against money laundering .
" these changes are necessary to ensure that hong kong will continue to meet the fatf requirements and to keep up with the practices in other comparable financial centres . this will help to maintain the reputation and credibility of hong kong as an international financial centre , " a spokesman for the hkma said .
" the hkma takes very seriously the need to prevent use of the banking system for the purposes of money laundering .
all authorized institutions are expected to have in place adequate policies and systems of control to enable them to comply with the requirements of the revised guideline . the hkma will monitor compliance with the guideline during its regular on - site examinations and may commission reports by external auditors on individual authorized institutions if the circumstances require , " the spokesman added .
the new guideline is available from the public registry of the hkma and accessible through internet at the hkma website ( http://www.info.gov.hk/hkma ) .
heater suppliers agree to rectify faults the suppliers of three brands of unvented electric thermal storage - type water heaters which have failed to meet the waterworks regulations , have agreed to carry out rectification for consumers free of charge , a spokesman for the water supplies department (wsd) said today ( friday ) .
the three brands of heaters are berlin uhp models , german pool gpu models and winbo whp models .
the suppliers have agreed to replace or repair the substandard safety devices of the sold heaters .
consumers may call the following numbers to arrange replacement or repair : berlin $number $number or $number $number german pool $number $number winbo $number $number " following the announcement of the test results by the consumer council , we contacted the suppliers and they agreed to the replacement arrangement , " the spokesman said .
" we have also sent them warning letters to ensure that the three types of heaters shall fully comply with the requirements of the waterworks regulation if they are manufactured for installation in hong kong , " he said .
" reminders have also been sent to all other suppliers of unvented storage - type heaters who have obtained approval for their products , " the spokesman added . he pointed out that all approved heaters of this type should be fitted with a thermostat , thermal cut - out device , temperature relief valve and pressure relief valve of the approved standards as safety devices .
" while we have no record of explosion involving this type of water heater due to failure of the safety devices , consumer should ask their suppliers to carry out inspection if they have any doubt , " he said .
" the safe functioning of an unvented water heater relies on the correct installation of the safety devices and their proper maintenance , " the spokesman said .
" installation of unvented electric thermal storage - type water heater shall conform to the requirements of the water authority and shall be carried out by a licensed plumber or electrical worker . "
" a list of licensed plumbers and electrical workers is available for inspection at the consumer enquiry centre of wsd , " the spokesman said .
views sought on kindergarten subsidy scheme teachers , interested parties and the public are invited to forward views on the education department 's kindergarten subsidy scheme (kss) to a working group newly formed to review the scheme after two years of implementation .
a spokesman for the department said that any proposals to improve the scheme will be welcome .
the working group is hoping that a new kss will be in place in the $number school year . the review will therefore have to be completed by early $number to be on time for the annual fee increase application exercise which has important bearings on kindergartens wishing to participate in the new scheme .
to allow sufficient time to process the suggestions , work out the best possible option for implementation and explain the new scheme to kindergarten operators , the working group must receive all submissions before $date this year . submissions should be sent to the secretary , working group on the review of the kindergarten subsidy scheme , room $number , $number floor , wu chung house , $number queen 's road east , wan chai , hong kong , or by fax to $number $number .
particulars of the contributors may be kept confidential on request .
the kss was introduced in $date to improve the quality of kindergarten education and to minimise the impact of fee increases on parents as a result of government 's new regulatory requirements on kindergartens .
the requirements include upgrading of the academic qualifications for kindergarten teachers , requirement for each kindergarten to have at least $number per cent trained teachers and for kindergartens to pay teachers according to the recommended salary scale .
payroll statistics for $number quarter $number according to statistics released today ( friday ) by the census and statistics department , average labour earnings in all major sectors of the economy , as measured by payroll per person engaged , recorded an increase of $number in nominal terms in $number quarter of $number over a year earlier .
after discounting changes in consumer prices , there was a notable increase of $number in real terms .
analysed by industry sector , average payroll per person engaged in the manufacturing sector increased by $number in nominal terms or $number in real terms .
for the wholesale , retail and import / export trades , restaurants and hotels sector , average payroll per person engaged increased by $number in nominal terms or $number in real terms .
average payroll per person engaged in the transport , storage and communications sector showed an increase of $number in nominal terms or $number in real terms .
average payroll per person engaged in the financing , insurance , real estate and business services sector recorded a large increase of $number in nominal terms or $number in real terms .
within this , earnings in the financing sub - sector showed a particularly strong growth , along with very active trading in the stock market in $number quarter of this year .
as for the community , social and personal services sector , average payroll per person engaged also recorded a marked increase of $number in nominal terms or $number in real terms .
part of the increase was attributable to the payment of special gratuities in the education services sub - sector in $number quarter of this year .
year - on - year changes in the indices of payroll per person engaged between $number quarter of $number and $number quarter of $number for selected major sectors , in both nominal and real terms , are shown in the attached table .
statistics on average payroll per person engaged are compiled at quarterly intervals based on the results of the labour earnings survey conducted by the census and statistics department .
the wage indices are also compiled from the same survey at half - yearly intervals for $date and $date of the year .
average payroll includes wages as well as all other irregular receipts such as bonuses and overtime allowances .
statistics on average payroll tend to show relatively larger quarter - to - quarter changes , affected by the number of hours actually worked and the timing of payment of bonuses and back - pay .
detailed breakdowns of the above statistics are published in the " quarterly report of employment , vacancies and payroll statistics , $date " .
the report will be available shortly at $ $number per copy ( exclusive of postage ) at the government publications centre , queensway government offices , low block , ground floor , $number queensway , hong kong and at the publications section of census and statistics department , $number / f. , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai , hong kong .
for enquiries about the indices of payroll per person engaged , please contact the census and statistics department at telephone number $number $number .
year - on - year change in indices of payroll per person engaged by selected major sector - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - % change for $number quarter $number over $number quarter $number selected major sector in nominal terms in real terms manufacturing $number $number wholesale , retail and $number $number import / export trades , restaurants and hotels transport , storage and $number $number communications financing , insurance , real $number $number estate and business services community , social and personal services $number $number all sectors @ $number $number @ including the mining and quarrying sector and electricity and gas sector end
chief justice to attend csd scouts ' musical rally the chief justice of the court of final appeal , the hon mr justice andrew li will be the guest of honour at the correctional services department (csd) musical rally for the community $number to be held at the queen elizabeth stadium tomorrow ( saturday ) evening .
the one - and - a - half - hour musical rally featuring band displays , silent drill , lion dance and aerobic dance is a community service by scouts and guides who are young inmates from various csd penal institutions .
as proceeds from ticket sales are donated to charities , the event provides the inmates with an opportunity to serve the community and above all , it promotes the rehabilitation of young offenders .
the $number hong kong scout group was established $date as part of the character training for inmates of cape collinson correctional institution and lai king training centre .
the $number island ranger guide service unit was set up $date for inmates of tai tam gap correctional institution .
under the programme , inmates from training centres are offered a full range of scouts and guides training and activities . they are encouraged to participate in various community services which help them turn over a new leaf .
draft ma on shan outline zoning plan approved the chief executive in council has approved the draft ma on shan outline zoning plan (ozp) to provide a statutory land use framework for the development and redevelopment within the area .
the ozp covers a total land area of $number hectares with a population of $number $date .
upon full development , the new town is expected to have a population of $number .
for that purpose , $number hectares of land , or $number per cent of the total land area , has been designated for residential development .
this includes $number hectares zoned as " residential ( group a ) " for high density public and private housing projects , and $number hectares zoned as " residential ( group b ) " and " residential ( group c ) " for medium to low density residential developments .
also included in the land for residential use are $number hectares for " village type development " in existing villages and for the reprovisioning of village houses .
about $number hectares of land , or $number per cent of the total land area on the plan , has been zoned " green belt " to mark the limit of urban development and to preserve the natural landscape , particularly the valleys and the hillslopes extending from the ma on shan country park .
about $number hectares , or $number per cent of the total land area , has been zoned " government / institution / community " to serve local residents and to meet the territory - wide needs .
about $number hectares , or $number per cent of the total land area , has been zoned " undetermined " . it covers the whitehead peninsula , part of which was previously used as the whitehead detention centre for vietnamese boat people . detailed planning studies are being undertaken to determine the future uses of this area .
meanwhile , $number hectares , or $number per cent of the total land area , has been zoned " open space " to provide both active and passive recreational facilities .
another $number hectares has been zoned " recreation " for a low - rise , low - intensity recreational development at nai chung coastal area to provide active recreational and tourist facilities to scales commensurate with the neighbouring environment .
" other specified uses " takes up $number hectares for uses , including a proposed hotel at the town centre and a proposed railway depot near lee on estate .
about $number hectares has been zoned " commercial / residential " for mixed commercial and residential developments .
two sites along sai sha road , with a total area of $number hectares , have been zoned " commercial " . about $number hectares have been zoned " site of special scientific interest " to protect the coast in nai chung which is of geological significance .
another $number hectare has been zoned " country park " .
it covers the nai chung barbecue spot which forms part of the ma on shan country park . development control within the zone will be carried out under the country parks ordinance .
the remaining $number hectares , or $number per cent of the total area , have been reserved mainly for roads and river channel .
s / mos/5 ) is available for public inspection during office hours at : * planning department , $number floor , murray building , garden road , central , hong kong ; * sha tin , tai po and north district planning office , ground floor , sha tin government offices , $number tung lo wan hill road , tai wai , sha tin new territories ; * sha tin district office , $number floor , city link plaza , sha tin station circuit , sha tin , new territories ; and * tai po district office , tai po government offices , ting kok road , tai po , new territories .
copies of the draft plan are available for sale at the survey and mapping office , lands department , $number floor , murray building , garden road , hong kong and the kowloon map sales office , ground floor , $number nathan road , kowloon .
tpb to review tuen mun ozp the chief executive in council has recently referred the approved tuen mun outline zoning plan (ozp) to the town planning board for amendment , a spokesman for the board announced today ( friday ) .
" amendments to the approved ozp are necessary to reflect the latest land use proposals for the tuen mun area and to speed up the provision of land to meet the pressing demand for housing in the territory , " the spokesman said .
the tuen mun ozp ( no. s / tm/9 ) was last approved by the then governor in council on $date .
" the plan , after revision by the board to incorporate the latest amendments , will be exhibited for public inspection under the provision of the town planning ordinance , " the spokesman added .
airport tunnel traffic control system to be upgraded the traffic control and surveillance system (tcss) in the airport tunnel will be upgraded by the turn of the century to provide a safer and more efficient traffic management system .
a spokesman for the electrical and mechanical services department said today ( friday ) that the improvement project would integrate new traffic equipment with existing traffic facilities .
the tcss was installed $date , when the airport tunnel was constructed . most of the equipment is approaching the end of its serviceable life or does not comply with current standards .
the works will include modification of existing facilities and installation of new equipment for both the central control room and field applications such as variable message signs and video cameras .
through the variable message signs , tunnel staff can inform motorists from time to time of the traffic conditions inside or in the vicinity of the tunnel .
this is particularly important in helping relieve traffic congestions in times of traffic accidents or other emergencies .
the works are due to begin in $date for completion in $date .
large - scale employment exhibition in tsim sha tsui the labour department will stage an employment exhibition - " employment information post " next wednesday ( $date ) at the hong kong cultural centre to help job seekers to find jobs and assist employers to recruit suitable staff .
a total of $number employers from different trades including manufacturing , catering , department store , banking , hotel , retail , property management , tourism , etc. will participate in the exhibition and provide $number vacancies for job seekers .
the vacancies range from middle higher to lower rank posts including department supervisor , shop manager , account manager , engineer , technician , cook , waiter / waitress , clerk , cashier , sales assistant , security guard , driver , cleaner , production worker , mechanic , storekeeper and others .
participating employers will brief job seekers on the job requirements of their vacancies and can arrange job interviews on the spot or on a later date .
five retraining institutes will also be present to provide job seekers with the latest information on retraining courses .
job seekers who are interested in the courses can submit applications at the venue .
the labour department will set up a counter at the venue to promote its all rounded employment and career advisory services catering for different types of job seekers .
current vacancies registered under the supplementary labour scheme and the job matching programme will be available .
on - the - spot registration will be provided to job seekers who wish to obtain the job matching services or apply for the vacancies .
information on current labour market situation , retraining services and job search techniques will be disseminated to job seekers by means of talks sessions and video shows .
the event is jointly organised by the labour department , the employees retraining board and six prominent employers associations .
more than $number people visited the exhibition held on tuesday ( $date ) at the shatin town hall .
all members of the public are welcome to visit the employment information post to be held from $number am to $number pm at the exhibition gallery , $number floor , administration building , hong kong cultural centre , tsim sha tsui .
fees for afd services to be revised the agriculture and fisheries department (afd) today ( friday ) announced revised fees for a number of services under the country parks ordinance , marine parks ordinance and pesticides ordinance from $date .
the revision , set out in the country parks and special areas ( amendment ) regulation $number , the marine parks and marine reserves ( amendment ) regulation $number and the pesticides ( amendment ) regulation $number , has been approved by the secretary for the treasury .
an afd spokesman noted that the fees were set , according to the general government policy , at levels sufficient to recover the full costs of providing the services .
the revised fees under the country parks and special areas regulation will be applied to permits for the use of country parks or special areas . the last costing review for these fees was conducted $date / $number and the current revision with an increase of about two to $number per cent is to reflect the full cost of the services .
under the marine parks and marine reserves regulation , fees are payable to all permits in connection with the use of marine parks and marine reserve .
the fees for the issue and renewal of these permits will increase by $number per cent , from $ $number to $ $number .
the other afd - administered legislation affected by the revision , the pesticides regulation , covers the application , issue , renewal , extension of pesticide licences and permits , and the application for the registration of a pesticide . the revision of fees should have little effect on local pesticides trade or on costs to consumers .
details of the new fees have been published in the government gazette today .
fees for dangerous goods services revised fees for services set out in four regulations relating to mining and the manufacture , storage , conveyance and usage of explosives will be revised from $date ( friday ) this year .
the four regulations are the mining ( general ) ( amendment ) regulation $number , mines ( safety ) ( amendment ) regulation $number , dangerous goods ( government explosives depots ) ( amendment ) regulation $number and dangerous goods ( general ) ( amendment ) regulation $number .
a government spokesman said the revisions were necessary to recover administrative and operating costs .
" the effect of the new fees on the construction industry as a whole will be minimal as the cost of explosives used for blasting constitutes a very small part of the total cost of construction projects , " he said .
four country parks cycling sites open under permit system four areas in country parks are now open for cycling activities under a permit system , after a six - month trial scheme earlier this year .
these areas include the cycling site in sai kung west ( wan tsai extension ) country park , trail from tai tam gap to to tei wan in shek o country park , catchwater road from kau ling chung to pui o and a trail at chi ma wan peninsula in lantau south country park .
an agriculture and fisheries department (afd) spokesman said today ( friday ) that this decision was made after the review of the trial scheme , which indicated that due to the low usage rate , cycling under a permit system had not caused significant adverse effect to the environment and safety .
" a total of $number permits was issued under the trial scheme . the country and marine parks authority had monitored the number of cyclists and their behaviour in the two sites at sai kung west and lantau south during the period , " said the spokesman .
" it was observed that the usage rate of individual cyclist was very low , which caused no significant damages to the surface of the footpath or the adjacent open countryside . "
he also pointed out that all the cyclists were found in compliance with the " code of practice " and there had been no report of accident to both hikers and cyclists in the areas .
" the permit system under trial will be continued and all these cycling areas will be closely monitored , " the spokesman added .
any person interested to apply for a cycling permit in these designated area should write to the country and marine parks authority , $number / f , canton road government offices , $number canton road , kowloon or by fax $number $number .
" the department will not accept any group applications nor applicants under the age of $number , " he said , adding that applicants aged between $number and $number should seek endorsement from their parents or guardians on their application letters .
no permit fee will be charged .
furthermore , permittees should observe the code of practice for cyclists and comply with the safety equipment requirement including ansi or similar standard helmet , colourful jerseys , suitable shoes , sturdily built bike with effective braking system , horn or bell and tyre of not less than $number cm in width .
after all , these practices and measures are to ensure the safety of both cyclists and hikers in permitted areas , the spokesman said .
he noted that there are a number of areas in country parks where no permit is required for cycling activities . these include plover cove main dam and its access road , hok tau road , kam shan road , lau shui heung road , shing mun road , tai mong tsai road , pak tam road , hoi ha road and the cycling track at tai mong tsai .
he stressed that cycling is strictly prohibited in country parks and special areas other than these locations .
" except with the consent of the country and marine parks authority , it is an offence to bring into a country park or special area any vehicle or bicycle ; or drive , use or be in possession of any vehicle or bicycle within a country park or special area . " " offender is liable to a maximum fine of $ $number and imprisonment for three months upon conviction . "
widening of shau kei wan main street east proposed the secretary for transport today ( friday ) proposes to widen the section of shau kei wan main street east between miu tung street and tung hei road .
being $number stage of the widening project of the street , the works will include : * widening the road section to a standard width of $number metres with footpaths of an average width of $number metres on both sides ; * raising of road levels by up to $number metre ; * provision of a traffic island to accommodate an existing large banyan tree ; and * ancillary works including renewal and upgrading of the existing drainage systems , construction of a staircase to the entrance of the tin hau temple and marrying - in of adjacent roads , side lanes and other paved areas etc. a notice of the proposed works was published in today 's sar government gazette .
the plan and scheme of the proposed works may be inspected during office hours at the following offices : * central and western district office , public enquiry service centre , ground floor , harbour building , $number pier road , central , hong kong ; * district lands office , hong kong east , $number floor , southorn centre , $number hennessy road , wan chai , hong kong ; * eastern district office , public enquiry service centre , ground floor , eastern law courts building , $number tai on street , sai wan ho , hong kong .
any person who wishes to object to the works or the use , or both , should write on or before $date to the secretary for transport , central government offices , east wing , $number floor , lower albert road , hong kong end
revision of fees under dutiable commodities regulations fees for the issue of various dutiable commodities licences and the provision of related services by the customs and excise department will be revised with effect from $date .
announcing this today ( friday ) , a sar government spokesman said : " this fee revision is $number phase of a $number - year revision programme to achieve full cost recovery .
" government 's general policy is to set fees based on full cost recovery so that those directly receiving the services , and not the general taxpayers , would pay for the services , " the spokesman explained .
" we had conducted a costing review on these fees , which showed that most of them were substantially below cost .
to avoid a sharp increase which may cause a burden to the dutiable commodities trade , we proposed last year to revise the fees by phases over a period of five years , based on a five - step scale to achieve $number per cent , $number per cent , $number per cent , $number per cent and $number per cent cost recovery respectively .
" for fees which were at nominal level or substantially below cost , the full five - step scale would apply and the fees would be increased to full cost recovery level in five years .
for other fees , depending on their level of cost recovery , they would be increased to the next higher level on the scale each year until full cost recovery is achieved , " he said .
" the legislative council at the time noted our five - year plan and approved $number phase of the fee revision , which was implemented in $date , " the spokesman said .
" we now seek to implement $number phase of the fee revision programme . the proposed fee increases constitute a very small proportion of the total operating costs of the dutiable commodities trade . the impact on general inflation will also be insignificant , " the spokesman added .
the dutiable commodities ( amendment ) regulation to revise the fees was gazetted today .
the regulation will be tabled in the provisional legislative council on next wednesday ( $date ) .
the current fees are set out in the schedule to the dutiable commodities regulations under the dutiable commodities ordinance ( cap . $number ) .
water cut in central and yuen long fresh water supply to some premises in central will be suspended from $number pm on $date ( monday ) to $number am the following day for waste detection work on watermains .
the suspension will affect the following : * 8 a $number ( even no ) des voeux road central , * $number ( even no ) and $number ( odd no ) queen 's road central , * $number - 2 2 a ( even no ) ice house street , * $number ( even no ) and $number ( odd no ) pedder street , * $number ( even no ) pottinger street , and * all premises at duddell street , theatre lane , chiu lung street , li yuen street east and li yuen street west .
meanwhile , fresh and flushing water supply to some premises in yuen long will also be suspended at the same date and time .
the affected area is bounded by hop yick road , tai tong road , fau tsoi street , yau sun street , including $number and $number hop yick road , $number fung cheung street and kin tak street .
transcript of fs 's media session following is a transcript of a media session by the financial secretary , mr donald tsang , after completing his consultation on the revenue side of the $number budget at the cgo this ( saturday ) morning : financial secretary : today marks the end of my consultation with members of the provisional legislature on the preparation of the revenue side of next year 's budget .
it will be prepared entirely on our own , within our resources , because it is within our autonomy .
my colleagues and i will be going to comply with those requirements religiously , we want to prove to the rest of the world that we are capable of producing a very good budget which will be conducive to economic growth and one which will satisfy our population here in hong kong .
because of the election next year , the president of the legislature has decided that i should present my budget to the provisional legislative council on $number of $date , which is significantly earlier than previous years .
so the preparatory work for the coming year 's budget would have to take place within a very tight programme .
what we want to do is , having received the submissions and comments from various parties and ( provisional ) legislative councillors , we would be examining all the proposals one by one very carefully from the beginning of $date .
i have also asked the ( provisional ) legislative councillors to let me have any residual , any other comments they might have , next week , because i would not be able to handle any more comments when they arrive after the end of this month .
there are a few further points .
this year we have received as usual recommendations and comments from members covering practically all items of revenue , most of them were suggestions for reduction rather than increases and we would deal with them very carefully .
then we would know whether we would need to raise new taxes or be able to give more tax concessions , depending on the outrun we would have on the revenue estimate .
i am determined to make a very good budget , one which satisfies the community as well as the population at large .
question : should we expect a very conservative budget with less spending ?
financial secretary : i don 't know what about spending . spending programme has already been determined by the chief executive .
so there won 't be any reduction . my job will be to find the money to fund those programmes as announced by the chief executive . question : ( inaudible ) ... expenditure programme ... would you like ... ?
financial secretary : as far as the expenditure programme is concerned it is quite proper for the chief executive to determine priorities . all i need to do is to determine the ceiling within which i hope the chief executive will comply with .
this year we are , in $number , we are spending $ $number and the trend growth rate of economy is $number .
so i have suggested to the chief executive to spend within the $number , that is $ $number .
financial secretary : oh i didn 't say that at all . what i am saying is since the chief executive has been a very good boy , is working very well , he is doing exactly what the basic law requires him to do , doing no more than that , it would be my job to meet that requirement .
stamp duty for sale of residential property extended the secretary for the treasury will move a resolution in the provisional legislative council on $date to extend the validity of the provisions under the stamp duty ordinance for charging stamp duty on all agreements for sale of residential property by a further period of two years until $date .
a government spokesman today ( saturday ) explained that the provisions were $number introduced $date and extended twice in $date and $date as one of a series of measures to help dampen speculation on residential property .
" genuine home - buyers will not be affected .
however , speculative sales prior to assignment cannot escape stamp duty and the cost to speculators is significantly increased .
" the inland revenue department can also make use of the information obtained to make assessments of profit tax if these cases are proved to be trading transactions , " he added .
he said there were many other factors at play which might affect the residential property market .
" but if we were to allow the stamp duty provisions to lapse after $date , there is a real risk that speculative activities would be fuelled as the cost of speculation would be reduced .
this would be detrimental to the stable operation of the property market and hence to genuine home - buyers .
" it will also send a wrong signal to the community that government is no longer committed to containing speculation in the residential property market , " he said .
the spokesman said that since the provisions have been in place for nearly six years , it had been accepted by the community at large and the procedures involved were well established and understood by the public and the practitioners .
" we have separately planned to introduce an amendment to the stamp duty ordinance to make the provisions permanent when $number special administrative region legislative council is in place , " he added .
" also , we will closely monitor the residential property market and we have drawn up a package of measures to be introduced at short notice should signs of excessive speculation emerge at any time , " he emphasised .
ambassadors to promote fire safety culture the fire services department hopes the fire safety ambassadors scheme will successfully arouse and upkeep the public 's awareness on fire prevention and encourage them to positively step up their fire protection measures .
speaking at a fire safety ambassador certificate presentation ceremony today ( saturday ) , the director of fire services , mr peter cheung , said two well - known organisations in the service of the community - the scout association of hong kong and the hong kong girl guides association - had enthusiastically participated and supported the scheme .
he said : " after completing a two - day training course , venture scouts and guiders will be appointed trainers of fire safety ambassadors .
" they will then recruit interested scouts and girl guides in their associations and train them as fire safety ambassadors , " he said .
both the trainers and fire safety ambassadors were required to take an examination at the conclusion of the course .
mr cheung said : " we are delighted to see that the overall results of the candidates are very impressive and the passing rate remarkably high . "
ever since the implementation of the scheme in may , $number venture scouts and $number guiders had been trained as trainers .
these trainers had in turn conducted $number courses and trained $number scouts and $number girl guides of their associations as fire safety ambassadors .
mr cheung also presented the " fire safety ambassador trainer certificates " to $number members of the fire services public liaison group and $number representatives of the estate management advisory committee .
he pointed out that the department would train all representatives of the advisory committee by phases and further promote the fire safety ambassador scheme in future .
mr cheung thanked the scout association of hong kong , the hong kong girl guides association , the housing department , the home affairs department and the district boards for their unstinting support of the scheme .
also speaking at the ceremony , the deputy secretary for security , mr alex fong , said lessons learnt from past fire incidents showed that one of the major problems confronting us was inadequate alertness and low " fire safety culture " in both building management and the community .
he said : " changing the community 's habit on fire safety is a key element and the most challenging task . "
he said the fire safety ambassador scheme would enhance public awareness on fire safety and provide the community with opportunities to actively take part in the mission of changing the " fire safety culture " .
mr fong urged the ambassadors to take up the challenge , to gain further support from the public and to disseminate the message of fire safety to every citizens of hong kong .
the duties of the ambassadors include conveying fire safety messages to the general public , promoting fire safety awareness in the community , and reporting to the fire services department any breaches of the fire services ordinance .
kwai tsing sports festival opens the kwai tsing sports festival ' $number was kicked off today ( saturday ) at tsing yi sports ground , marking the start of a rich programme of sporting events until $date .
speaking at a ceremony marking the opening of the kwai tsing sports festival ' $number , chairman of the kwai tsing sports festival committee , mr lam sai - hung , said the four - week long sports extravaganza was expected to attract $number spectators and participants .
the festival , organised by the kwai tsing sports festival committee with the assistance of the kwai tsing district office , featured a number of sports events , including football , basketball , badminton , ping - pong , volleyball , track and field and martial arts .
additionally , demonstrations of some sports not commonly seen in hong kong , including remote - controlled model cars and synchronised swimming performances , will be staged during the festival .
mr lam said : " the annual sports festival aims to give members of the public a chance to participate in different kinds of sports activities and to promote community spirit .
" we also hope that this will engender a stronger sense of community belonging and promote harmony in the district . " he said .
the kwai tsing sports festival ' $number was organised at a cost of about $ $number , of which $ $number was funded by the provisional regional council , $ $number by the kwai tsing provisional district board and the rest covered by local donations .
the opening ceremony featured a drill by $number people , followed by football matches and dance performances .
officiating guests included provisional regional council chairman , mr lau wong - fat ; kwai tsing provisional district board chairman , mr sin chung - kai ; assistant director of home affairs , mr victor ng ; and kwai tsing district officer , mr ngai wing - chit .
more awareness on road safety needed there has been a downward trend in the overall total number of traffic accidents over the past $number years in spite of the increasing use of vehicles and roads , assistant commissioner for transport , mr li shu - ming , said today ( sunday ) .
this could be attributed to the concerted efforts of various government departments and related organisations in promoting road safety , he added .
officiating the opening ceremony of the hk open safety driving treasure hunt organised by the institute of advanced motorists hong kong , mr li said there were an average of $number traffic accidents causing injuries a day and five people died in these accidents every week .
mr li said : " the majority of traffic accidents involve people 's negligence .
for drivers , the most common causes are following too closely to vehicles , speeding and changing lanes carelessly .
" many accidents could be avoided if people are more patient , drive carefully and be considerate of other road users .
we should aim at widely promoting the road safety messages to enhance road users ' awareness . "
shop owner fined $ $number for illegal structures the owner of two ground floor shop units in tsuen wan has recently been fined $ $number for failing to comply with a statutory order to remove unauthorised building works .
inspection by buildings department staff found an unauthorised door opening in the wall between the cockloft and the main staircase of the two adjoining buildings .
the unauthorised opening seriously reduces the effectiveness of the fire escape of the building .
statutory orders were issued by the building authority in $date last year requiring the owner to remove all the illegal structures within $number days .
prosecution was taken out when the owner failed to comply with the orders without a reasonable excuse upon expiry of the orders .
a spokesman for the buildings department said today ( sunday ) that any additions or alterations to buildings without the approval of the building authority were regarded as unauthorised building works and must be removed .
" these include metal cages , air - conditioning cooling towers , canopies , flat roof structures , rooftop structures , subdivision of flats , structural alterations and drainage connections , " the spokesman said .
he pointed out that any person intending to carry out building works was required by law to appoint an authorised person , and where necessary a registered structural engineer , to prepare plans for the approval of the building authority in accordance with the buildings ordinance .
" consent from the building authority is required before works start , " he said .
the spokesman said that it was the responsibility of all building owners to ensure that their properties were properly maintained and free from unauthorised works at all times in order to avoid causing danger to the occupants and the general public .
renewal of employment agency licences refused the labour department today ( sunday ) urged operators of employment agencies to comply with the law , otherwise , their applications for licence renewal could be refused or even their licences could be revoked .
the call was made following the labour department 's recent refusal to renew two employment agency licences .
the licensee of maria criseida agency was convicted for overcharging a job seeker and failing to maintain and keep the record of the job seeker for inspection . subsequent to the convictions , the labour department refused to renew the licence of the employment agency .
the department also refused to renew the licence of another employment agency - on sun tat travel company - after the licensee was found guilty of aiding and abetting the breach of condition of stay of an indonesian domestic helper .
" under the employment ordinance , the commissioner for labour may refuse to issue or renew , or may revoke a licence if the person operating or intending to operate the agency has been convicted of an offence involving membership of a triad society , fraud , dishonesty or extortion , or has contravened any provision of part xii of the employment ordinance or the employment agency regulations , " labour officer ( employment agencies administration ) , mrs lourdes lam , said .
" moreover , an employment agency can only charge a successful job seeker a commission of not $number per cent of $number month 's salary .
charging any other fees , such as processing fee or registration fee , is strictly prohibited , " she said . overcharging a job seeker is an offence under the employment ordinance . offenders are liable to a maximum fine of $ $number .
enquiries and complaints on the operation of employment agencies can be made to the employment agencies administration in person or by phone at $number $number .
trade , travel and stronger ties on ce 's european agenda forging closer trading and economic links are on the agenda for the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , during his $number official visit to the european union (eu) .
mr tung arrived last ( sunday ) night in the belgian capital brussels - home of the eu headquarters - for a series of top - level meetings with the eu 's political and business leaders .
mr tung will also explain how hong kong has continued to run smoothly since the handover on $date and is fully committed to free and open trade , the rule of law and the enforcement of international treaties on strategic commodities , intellectual property rights and human rights .
he will also promote the hksar passport and call for international efforts to resolve the vietnamese refugee problem .
on the political side , mr tung will meet european commission (ec) president mr jacques santer , the ec vice president mr leon brittan , members of the european parliament and belgian prime minister mr jean - luc dehaene .
in a move to further consolidate trade ties between hong kong and the eu , mr tung will inaugurate the hk / eu and eu / hk business co - operation committees and give the keynote address at $number trade development council (tdc) annual dinner in europe .
the establishment of the bilateral co - operation committees has been spearheaded by the tdc to develop even closer links between european and hong kong manufacturing and service industry leaders .
on tuesday , mr tung will make his $number official visit to the united kingdom , which will include meetings with british prime minister mr tony blair , secretary of state for foreign and commonwealth affairs mr robin cook , and the secretary of state for trade and industry margaret beckett .
topics to be covered during the two - day london visit will include the latest developments in hong kong since the handover and hk - uk business ties .
mr tung will address a lunch hosted by the hongkong and shanghai bank , deliver keynote speeches to the influential royal institute of international affairs and at the tdc annual dinner in london and attend a breakfast briefing with the hong kong association .
mr tung returns to hong kong on friday .
latest unemployment and underemployment statistics the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate for the period $date was $number , while the underemployment rate was $number , according to the latest labour force statistics released today ( monday ) by the census and statistics department .
for the period $date , both the provisional seasonally adjusted unemployment rate and the provisional underemployment rate edged lower to $number and $number respectively .
commenting on these figures , a government secretariat spokesman said that overall labour market conditions tightened further in recent months .
the latest three - monthly unemployment rate , at $number , was the lowest recorded since the beginning of $number . the underemployment rate , at $number , was the lowest recorded in the past six years .
comparing the latest three - month period $date with the period $date , notable declines in the unemployment rate were seen in the manufacturing and the transport sectors .
as to the underemployment rate , there was also a notable decline in the transport sector , and even more so in the construction sector .
the spokesman also pointed out that total employment continued to show robust growth , at a faster pace than overall labour force .
in the three months ending $date , total employment increased by $number over a year earlier , while total labour supply increased by $number .
during the period $date , the number of unemployed persons was estimated at $number , and the number of underemployed persons at $number .
the unemployment and underemployment statistics were obtained from a continuous general household survey .
the survey for $date covered a quarterly sample of some $number households or $number $number persons , selected scientifically to represent the land - based civilian non - institutional population in hong kong .
data on labour force characteristics were obtained from the survey by interviewing each member aged $number or over in the households sampled .
in the survey , the definitions used in measuring unemployment and underemployment follow closely those recommended by the international labour organisation .
being 'seasonally adjusted ' refers to the fact that unemployment rate has been adjusted for seasonal variations in the proportion of $number - time job - seekers in the labour force .
detailed analysis of labour force characteristics is given in the report on the general household survey which is published four times a year .
the next report covering the quarter ending $date will be on sale at the government publications centre at ground floor , low block , $number queensway , hong kong , by the end of $date .
planning for hong kong 's sustainable development local town planners must take a broader perspective in finding ways to achieve hong kong 's sustainable development in a wider context of regional development , member of the provisional legislative council , mr edward ho sing - tin , said today ( monday ) .
" with an increasing interaction between hong kong and one of the world 's fastest growing regions , the pearl river delta , the planning profession will no doubt strengthen further its positive role to sustain the competitiveness of hong kong in the global economy , " mr ho said .
also officiating at the ceremony were the secretary for planning , environment and lands , mr bowen leung and the director of planning , dr peter pun .
mr ho pointed out that hong kong was moving towards a more open society with a diversity of interests .
" it is also necessary for the planning system to provide certainty in the use of land to guide public and private investment as well as flexibility to meet any changing community needs and circumstances , " he said .
mr ho paid tribute to government town planners for their contribution to the formulation of a comprehensive land use planning framework which provided the necessary guidance and control on land development in the past $number years .
he noted that the exhibition was $number of five to be held in hong kong , beijing and guangzhou .
" the organisation of such an event is most timely , not only because it celebrates the $number anniversary of the establishment of a dedicated government town planning office but also because it is $number of its kind to be held in the mainland since hong kong 's return to china .
" activities of this kind will promote mutual understanding and experience sharing which will certainly be beneficial to both the mainland and hong kong , " he said .
the exhibition , in $number floor lobby of times square , will be open to the public from $number am to $number pm daily until this friday ( $date ) .
apart from giving an overview on the role of town planning in the development of hong kong , the exhibition highlights the land resources , the planning for various city functions , including housing , industry , commerce and community facilities , as well as environmental and heritage conservation .
it features project models including south east kowloon development , green island reclamation , the new airport in chek lap kok and jubilee street / queen 's road central redevelopment .
a bilingual documentary video is shown during the exhibition and a leaflet on town planning will also be available .
the exhibition will be staged at sha tin new town plaza from saturday ( $date ) to $date ( sunday ) .
language fund applications vetted the standing committee on language education and research (scolar) has made recommendation for funding for five applications involving a total amount of $ $number after completion of $number round vetting of the applications to the language fund .
of the $number applications received , two research tenders and three general applications have been recommended for funding , while other applications are still being considered .
all successful applications will be announced subsequently by the end of the year .
the chairman of the scolar , dr daniel c w tse , said after a meeting of the committee today ( monday ) : " we are assessing each proposal on the basis of its feasibility , relevance to the objectives of the language fund , priority of the topic , as well as the number of people who may benefit from the project .
" we will also seek the expert opinion of external advisors on the viability and merits of the proposals , " dr tse added .
to ensure that the stated objectives of the projects are fulfilled , scolar has decided to adopt a two - tier mechanism for evaluation of the projects .
while the grantees have to devise and conduct self - evaluation of the success and usefulness of their projects , the scolar support unit may also undertake an independent evaluation of the projects .
the two - tier mechanism will provide a comprehensive review of the effectiveness of the language fund projects and allow scolar to consider follow - up plans for wide dissemination of the results of the projects .
at today 's meeting , members also discussed the proposed new native - speaker english teacher (net) scheme . their response to the scheme was positive .
it was decided that a task group would be set up under scolar to keep close contacts with schools , to advise on the operation of the net scheme , to evaluate its effectiveness in terms of upgrading students ' english language standard , and to develop other measures to improve english language learning and teaching in hong kong .
emstf comes through in flying colours the electrical and mechanical services trading fund (emstf) achieved an average return of $number per cent on fixed assets in the year $number , $number percentage points higher than the target set by the financial secretary .
in $number annual report since its operation in $date last year , the general manager of the emstf , mr hugh phillipson , said the good performance had been made possible through a combination of cost containment and a number of operational changes .
" we have undertaken a number of initiatives to meet the different needs and priorities of our clients , $number being the setting up of a customer support unit which has embarked on an annual , thorough customer satisfaction poll , " mr phillipson said .
information from the opinion survey will help to develop appropriate improvement measures tailored specifically for each customer 's requirements .
moreover , senior directorate officers have been assigned as client managers to ensure satisfactory service to customers .
to provide better and speedier services to customers , a regionalisation plan was launched in $date with $number service staff being redeployed and relocated to strategic locations .
upon full implementation of this plan , considerable savings will be achieved in travelling time between the depots and the clients ' work sites , and in accommodation and transportation costs .
an example is that at $number attended venues of the provisional municipal councils , the fault response time has been reduced $time , with a compliance ratio of almost $number per cent .
moreover , through the business process improvement exercise which reduces the time required to keep a vehicle in the workshop , the availability of ambulances has been raised $number per cent .
" this improvement is equivalent to seven additional ambulances in the street everyday , " mr phillipson said .
another example is in the reduction in energy consumption in hospitals .
with the modification of the lighting system in the main block of queen mary hospital , an annual cost saving of $ $number in electricity fees and lamp bulb replacement cost has been made possible .
" we are excited that this new partnership will bring increased efficiencies to our customers , help them achieve the maximum reliability and long life from the equipment that underpins their day - to - day business , " mr phillipson said .
the emstf will continue to cut costs in order to bring further benefit to the customers .
mr phillipson said : " in the coming two years , our aim is to improve productivity by $number per annum and to achieve iso accreditation for all our business units . "
" in addition to ongoing skills training , we are introducing management and customer services training initiatives , to ensure that the emstf fully takes on its new responsibilities , " he added .
value of manufacturers ' orders - on - hand in $date the value of manufacturers ' orders - on - hand for local production in $date increased by $number over a year earlier , according to the provisional results of a monthly survey released today ( monday ) by the census and statistics department .
comparing $date with $date , increases in the value of orders were recorded in the printing and publishing industry ( $number ) ; the wearing apparel industry ( $number ) ; the textiles industry ( $number ) ; and the electronic products industry ( $number ) .
however , decreases in the value of orders were recorded in the plastic products industry ( $number ) , the fabricated metal products industry ( $number ) and the electrical products industry ( $number ) .
compared with $date , and bearing in mind that this comparison may be affected by seasonal factors , the value of manufacturers ' orders - on - hand in $date increased by $number .
the monthly survey of orders - on - hand covers a sample of some $number manufacturing firms engaging $number or more workers . manufacturers ' orders - on - hand refer to orders and parts of orders received earlier by manufacturers for local production which remain unfilled as at the end of the reference month .
orders received by traders not engaged in production are included if such orders are further placed to manufacturers for production locally . however , orders placed to manufacturing firms for production in the mainland of china and other places outside hong kong are not included in this series of orders - on - hand statistics .
a spokesman for the department pointed out that caution should be exercised in interpreting the manufacturers ' orders - on - hand figures in a single month . instead , the trend movement of the series as displayed over a wider span of time points should be looked at .
the survey report for $date , at $ $number a copy , is now available for sale at the government publications centre , queensway government offices , low block , ground floor , queensway , and at the census and statistics department publications unit , $number floor , wanchai tower , $number harbour road , wan chai .
enquiries about the survey results may be made to the industrial production statistics section of the census and statistics department on $number $number .
the following table shows the year - on - year percentage changes in the value of orders - on - hand in different manufacturing industries .
percentage changes in the value of orders - on - hand in $date $date over $date over $date - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ( revised ) ( provisional ) all industries covered in $number + $number the survey * wearing apparel $number + $number * textiles $number + $number * electronic products $number + $number * electrical products - $number * fabricated metal products - $number * plastic products - $number * printing and publishing $number $number end
seminar on aids education for secondary school principals some $number secondary school principals or their representatives will attend a seminar on aids education tomorrow ( tuesday ) .
jointly organised by the education department and the committee on education and publicity on aids of the hong kong advisory council on aids , the seminar aims to familiarise participants with the epidemiology of hiv infection .
school heads will learn about the policy and strategies for aids prevention in hong kong . they will also share experiences on aids education at the forum of the seminar .
the chief inspector of schools of the education department , ms susanna cheung , will deliver a welcoming speech at the seminar . speakers will include the senior medical officer of the department of health , dr teresa choi , the chairman of hong kong advisory council on aids , dr conrad kui shing lam and the principal of tseung kwan o government secondary school , ms grace wong .
the seminar will be held at the theatre , low block , city hall , edinburgh place , central between $number pm and $number pm .
the register serves mainly as the sampling frame for various economic surveys conducted by the department . besides , many other government departments and private organisations also make use of the records kept in the register in their publicity , business promotion , survey and research work . information kept in the central register of establishments is updated on a quarterly basis .
updated information in respect of $number quarter of $number is now available . a sample listing containing $number per cent of the records randomly selected from the register is accessible by prospective users .
application for the supply of non - confidential particulars ( including the name , address , major type of business and employment size class ) of all or part of the listed records can be made to the central register of establishments section of the department .
a charge will be levied for this service , at the following rates : * $ $number per page of photocopy for $number $number pages and $ $number for each additional page thereafter ; or * a charge of about $ $number for a job requiring special computer run ( exact amount depending on the complexity of the job concerned ) , if the information is required on magnetic tapes or floppy diskettes .
the magnetic tapes and floppy diskettes can be provided by the applicant , or by the department at a charge of $ $number per tape and $ $number per diskette respectively .
further details about the provision of this service can be obtained from the central register of establishments section of the department on $number $number .
fresh water cut in tai po market fresh water supply to some premises in tai po market will be suspended from $number pm on $date ( thursday ) to $number am the following day for waste detection work on watermains .
the suspension will affect all premises in the area bounded by kwong fuk road , tung cheong street , plover cove road and po yick street including plover cove garden , po wu lane and po yick lane .
world trade , visa - free travel top ce 's talks in belgium global trade has dominated talks in brussels yesterday ( monday ) between the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , and european union politicians .
securing visa - free access for the hong kong sar passport , a wide - range of transitional issues and vietnamese refugees were also raised during a full day of meetings in the belgian capital .
mr tung described the talks as 'useful and forward looking ' .
during a three - hour session of talks , which included meetings with european commission president , mr jacques santer and vice president , sir leon brittan , mr tung stressed hong kong 's commitment to free trade .
discussions were held on the liberalisation of the financial services market , china 's accession to the world trade organisation (wto) and hong kong 's active role in the global trade body and the importance of permitting free trade on a multi - lateral basis .
it was agreed that hong kong and the eu would continue to work actively on areas of co - operation in trade and customs .
the discussions with european commission leaders has cleared the way for substantial negotiations on a customs co - operation agreement . all sides hope that the negotiations can be concluded as soon as possible , " mr tung said .
on the sar passport , mr tung secured the support of the top ec officials in hong kong 's efforts to secure visa - free access to ec member states .
the european commission leaders pledged to encourage member states to provide visa - free travel to hong kong , which allows visa - free access for all eu nationals .
" i raised the issue of visa - free entry with the commissioners and also with the president and i think their response was quite sympathetic , i think very sympathetic , and they will talk with individual member states on this issue , " mr tung said .
" we will also be working very hard with these individual states who have not given us visa - free yet and hopefully over a period of time we will succeed in our efforts . "
in a morning session with european parliament (ep) members , mr tung was congratulated for the smooth running of hong kong since the handover .
they discussed a wide range of issues , including hong kong 's electoral arrangements and the pace of the democratic process , labour laws , legal aid , the use of english in the legal system , human rights and the environment .
the ep members lent support to mr tung 's call for visa - free access to eu countries .
ep members also expressed interest in hong kong 's role within the wto as well as china 's entry to the body .
later in the day , mr tung attended $number plenary session of the hk / eu and eu / hk business co - operation committee and held talks with belgian prime minister mr jean - luc dehaene .
mr tung will also deliver the keynote address at the inaugural hong kong dinner in europe , during which he will tell guests that new opportunities abound for european business in hong kong and the rapidly - expanding chinese market .
mr tung leaves for london this ( tuesday ) ( united kingdom time ) morning .
new business opportunities abound in europe says ce new opportunities abound for european companies in hong kong and the mainland of china , the chief executive , mr tung chee hwa , has told a high - powered dinner audience of corporate executives , politicians and diplomats in brussels .
speaking last ( monday ) night at the inaugural annual hong kong dinner in europe , mr tung said china 's opening up and economic reforms would draw the european and hong kong business communities even closer together .
" hong kong has been enriched over many decades by different ideas and cultures , blending the best of east and west . europe has contributed greatly to this process , " mr tung said at the dinner , hosted by the trade development council and attended by $number people .
" it is more than the prospect of making money .
the deeper attraction is hong kong itself .
